---
id: 24
title: First
date: 2011-07-18T22:09:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=24
permalink: /2011/07/18/first/
categories:
  - Ramblings
tags:
  - life
  - philosophy
---
As I was driving in the car yesterday, the deep sax of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morphine_%28band%29" target="_blank">Morphine</a> filling my ears, watching the waxing orange and purple of the sun set in front of me, I was startled by how _alive_ I felt; how _vivid_ I saw the world around me. I was weary to the bone, both mentally and physically after a long day being under the hot sun, yet I was energized in a way that I just can&#8217;t put into words. Believe me, I&#8217;ve been trying to all day and still come up short of finding the right phrase. With the scent of half burned gasoline and engine exhaust emanating from my clothes I started thinking about all the things that have changed in just a few short months. And as I listed them out in my head I kind of amazed myself&#8230;

**I got promoted to Vice President.** January 1st of this year I started my new role, and while it&#8217;s the next rung in the corporate ladder, I&#8217;m really proud of what I&#8217;ve accomplished. Not bad for a middle class kid from Detroit who took 9 years to get through college.

**I bought a Lotus.** A 5 year dream, 2 years of which was spent working more than one job so I could have the money for a down payment on it. And the enjoyment it&#8217;s brought me these past few months is indescribable. Being able to toss on some music and just go for a drive is one of the most simple pleasures I have. A drive in the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lotus_Elise" target="_blank">Lotus</a> for me is nothing but a gateway to the happiness in my soul, even when it&#8217;s just going to the gas station. On my worst day this year, rather than sit and brood on my unhappiness, I grabbed the keys and went for a drive. And when I got home life wasn&#8217;t so bad &#8211; sometimes you need your past accomplishments to remind you that you can be successful in reaching your goals despite some stumbles along the way.

**I learned how to scuba dive.** For years I&#8217;ve always said &#8220;one day I&#8217;d like to go scuba diving, it looks fun&#8221;. And then one day this spring I got invited to go on a scuba diving trip and while I was initially hesitant just said &#8220;why not?&#8221; and <a href="http://www.seaventures.com/" target="_blank">signed up to get certified</a>. Sometimes you just have to leap.

**I took my first international trip.** Yep, hard to believe, but before this year I&#8217;d never been out of the country. Sure, I&#8217;d been to Canada as a little kid and done the Tijuana thing in my early 20&#8217;s but to really go outside the borders of the US and need a passport to get back in was something I&#8217;d never done. And the <a href="http://www.turksandcaicostourism.com/" target="_blank">Turks & Caicos</a> did not disappoint&#8230; it was truly out of the US. I mean&#8230; they have no stop lights and use traffic circles, not to mention you drive on the wrong side of the road.

**I spoke on my first security webinar.** This will always be remembered as one of the funnest things I&#8217;ve done. Talking with a <a href="http://www.thehackeracademy.com/about/instructors/" target="_blank">group of guys who&#8217;s knowledge far exceed mine</a> and having a good time doing it&#8230; yeah, definitely in the win column.

**I went to my first out of state concert.** Completely spur of the moment I dropped a few hundred bucks on 3rd row seats to Social Distortion in Nashville, called my brother, and told him we&#8217;re going to a concert together. I hadn&#8217;t gone to a concert with him since we were teenagers and it was an awesome night seeing an awesome band at an awesome venue.

**I did my first charity event.** And it was one of the most rewarding experiences of my life. I&#8217;ve never been one to really give time and energy to others as surprising as it may seem. Sure I give a few bucks here and there to the Salvation Army at Christmas, and I donate a Lego set every year to the Toys for Tots program, but never searched out a way to actually give something other than a faceless donation. And seeing the [smiles on the faces of those kids](http://www.bizjournals.com/atlanta/print-edition/2011/05/27/ferrari-dealer-gives-kids-rides-to.html)&#8230; holy shit was that amazing. I realized that day I had completely missed the boat on something really important in life.

**I spoke at my first security conference at the request of someone else.** Before this year I&#8217;d spoken at the <a href="http://www.securitybsides.com/w/page/30119949/BSidesATLTalks" target="_blank">Atlanta B-Sides</a> conference, but that was of my own volition. But in May, out of nowhere, I was approached and asked to speak at a conference based on my sheer speaking ability and the ideas I had conveyed to a group of folks. At the end of that speaking engagement I had a group of CIO&#8217;s passing me their business cards because they wanted to stay in contact and hear more of what my thoughts were. And yeah&#8230; that pretty much kicked ass.

**I did my first podcast interview.** I was in DC, standing in the hallway with a group of people speaking my mind (as I&#8217;m well known to do), I caught the ear of Ira Victor who hosts the [Cyber Jungle podcast](http://thecyberjungle.wordpress.com/2011/06/25/gartner-security-summit-2011-a-different-take-on-risk-assessment/). After a 10 minute diatribe he looked at me and said &#8220;I want to interview you, that was awesome&#8221;. And so off we went, just like that, and I did my first interview.

**I posted my first blog post.** Obviously [here](http://danielfrye.com) and it will be the first of many I&#8217;m sure. This is another of those &#8220;I should write more, I have good ideas occasionally&#8221;. But these blog posts don&#8217;t write themselves either. I think the word I&#8217;m looking for is &#8220;lazy&#8221; &#8211; don&#8217;t be.

**I learned to indoor rock climb.** I&#8217;m still not super at it, but give me a few more months and I&#8217;ll be doing lead rope 5.11&#8217;s. Not a doubt in my mind.

**I joined my first gym.** I&#8217;ve worked out before (that should be a given), but never taken the step to actually join a gym where you go and actually work out amongst others. I&#8217;m sure there is some kind of latent self-esteem thing hidden in there, but whatever, I&#8217;ve hit the age where I really just don&#8217;t care what other people think. And surprisingly, I&#8217;ve actually enjoyed the time getting out of the house and being able to do things that you just can&#8217;t do in your own basement.

**I had my first pool party.** Granted it was 6 people and planned at the last minute, but the fact that I&#8217;ve lived in this house for 5 years with a pool and never had one&#8230; kind of a &#8220;what the hell am I waiting for&#8221; moment.

**I learned to ride a motorcycle.** I&#8217;ve always been scared of motorcycles and while I&#8217;ve always secretly wanted to try it, my fear of it always prevented me from giving it a try. As I&#8217;ve gotten older I keep asking myself, &#8220;if not now&#8230; when?&#8221;. And so a couple weeks ago said &#8220;what the hell&#8230;&#8221; and signed up for a class. And of course, as should be no great surprise, I loved it.

So by now you&#8217;re probably thinking what a pompous ass filled with self pride listing all the things he&#8217;s done. Yeah, I&#8217;m proud of my personal accomplishments, but that&#8217;s not the point I&#8217;m trying to make. The point is this &#8211; what are you doing in your life **_toda__y_ _and tomorrow_** to accomplish the things you want to? Up until this year I had half halfheartedly followed the passion in my heart. I felt drawn to all these great adventures but never took the time to chase them. Some dreams take a long time in coming, and take a lot of work, but don&#8217;t you owe it to yourself to chase them? If you don&#8217;t give chase wholeheartedly&#8230; then who is?

And now you&#8217;re saying &#8220;I can&#8217;t because \___\___&#8221;. So what&#8217;s preventing you? Is it fear, priority, life circumstances, financial challenges? It&#8217;s not all fun and games, believe me. Earlier this year I had my heart broken; not once but twice. Its been an emotionally challenging few months for sure, ask some of my friends, but as I look around me, I realize I&#8217;m still on top of life, and while I haven&#8217;t found that special someone to share my life with I&#8217;m not beat yet&#8230; not by a long shot. So my advice is this, regardless of what you&#8217;re next adventure is, or the circumstances of your life, or how many times you&#8217;ve cried yourself to sleep with tears of heartache or frustration&#8230;  you have the power to change it. Take control, take steps, take one day at a time and work towards your goal. But whatever you do, just do&#8230; you&#8217;ll get there eventually. And you&#8217;ll be a better person for it &#8211; that which we get for free has no value. All of a sudden you&#8217;ll realize your life has become about passion, happiness, and you&#8217;ll bring that to those around you and most importantly &#8230; to yourself.

Case in point: In the next few months [I&#8217;ll buy my first motorcycle](http://www.triumphmotorcycles.com/motorcycles/range/classics/thruxton), I&#8217;ll make [my first cross country road trip](http://www.britishspeed.com/forum/showthread.php?4553-The-Official-BritishSpeed-Roads-to-LOG-2011&highlight=LOG31), I&#8217;ll walk [60 miles with a friend battling cancer](http://www.the3day.org/site/TR/2011/AtlantaEvent2011?px=6062409&pg=personal&fr_id=1610), I&#8217;ll see my first football game at USC, I&#8217;ll learn how to be a photographer, and who knows what else&#8230; it&#8217;s only July. Maybe I&#8217;ll meet the girl of my dreams&#8230; wouldn&#8217;t that be a kicker.

Daniel