---
id: 1534
title: 'Protected: Week 12'
date: 2020-05-09T14:25:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1534
permalink: /2020/05/09/week-12/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, May 4th

May the 4th be with you! And also with you!

And now onto the update&#8230;

I came out swinging today. I woke up around 5:30 this morning, I&#8217;m not particularly sure why, and decided I wanted to just go tackle this thing. I&#8217;ve worn myself out with the constant worry. I just need to give into the adventure and let it carry me. I&#8217;m not sure why I fought it, but I&#8217;m hoping I can maintain this new found perspective. 

The first thing I did after waking up was roll over and grab my cell phone to check my email. The first email I saw was from Professor McGreggor saying that he&#8217;d be happy to write a Letter of Support for us. He sounded pretty excited in his email; that was reassuring. After so many weeks of seemingly not getting a break or positive news, it was nice to hear a friendly face say something. It was invigorating. 

After the usual wake-up routine and cup of coffee, I took some time for bacon and eggs. One of the nice things about my current situation is that I&#8217;m free to set my schedule however I want. Not that I couldn&#8217;t before, but I always felt a sort of guilt when I was away from my desk. Like&#8230; I don&#8217;t know. It was kind of weird in a way to step away. Like you had to be there, ready to respond at a moment&#8217;s notice. But now, especially with Covid, it was like &#8220;ok, I&#8217;m going to go refuel.&#8221; I feel much more in charge of my time. It&#8217;s actually quite liberating.

Monday was largely spent working on the NSF writeup. I managed to crank out a few more good pages, and many MANY bad ones, but ultimately arrived at something I think was right. 

I was reminded about something McGreggor said in class during my MBA at one point in the day. It was the picture of the Canvas and him saying you &#8220;iterate, iterate, iterate&#8221;. And then he flipped the slide and it was a confusing line of spaghetti. I didn&#8217;t really appreciate that slide until that day. 

Monday turned out to be an 18 hour day, running from 5:30 to roughly midnight. I took a few breaks in between sprints, namely breakfast and dinner and skipped lunch, but the day seemed to fly by. It occurred to me during the day that I had FINALLY achieved flow! Real honest-to-god flow!

I was a bit tired Tuesday. I got up later than I wanted, about 8, and then went about checking email and the usual morning news reading routine until about 10. I did a little work re-reading Monday&#8217;s writing, making a few corrections and tweaks, then took a shower and headed up to see a friend to go shooting.

A couple years ago I got a Smith & Wesson Shield M&P 9mm and it&#8217;s sat in a box since. He and I are planning to go camping next week and I may bring a sidearm as a precaution so wanted to get a feel for it. You never know what kind of crazy shit could happen these days. 

Shooting was fun. I hadn&#8217;t been to the range in at least a couple years. I was pretty happy with the Shield overall, but it pulls to the left about 6 inches at 10 yards. The clusters were good &#8211; I&#8217;m consistent in the way I shoot it &#8211; which leads me to believe the sights are a little off. My Sig P220 shoots straight as an arrow &#8211; similarly tight groupings &#8211; so further evidence it&#8217;s not that I&#8217;m doing something really wrong with the smaller pistol.

Tom called on my way back from the range asking if we could push our Tuesday night meeting to Wednesday. Tom conferenced Paul in and ultimately Paul and I agreed to still meet Tuesday night as he had some things he wanted to talk to me about and that we would meet as a three person group on Wednesday. 

Tuesday afternoon was, you guessed it, more writing. Writing, re-writing, re-writing again, and then a 30 minute nap. After the nap, it was back to writing and tweaking some of the business model diagrams and architecture diagrams with ideas I had during the morning. 

Tuesday was kind of important, all things considered. What I didn&#8217;t realize before, or at least put into words in the NSF submission, is just how important the user<>website<>partner triumverate is to the business model and how it aids in our network effects and potentially switching costs. Paul and I talked a lot about this stuff in our meeting Tuesday night.

Switching costs work like this: 

Let&#8217;s say you buy an Apple phone. You get on the Apple app store and buy some apps. $2.99 here, $.99 there a few times, and few ringtones for $1.99, and before you know it you spent $20. Fast forward over the course of a year &#8211; you may have spent much more than $20 in the platform.

Now let&#8217;s say you sell your Apple phone and get an Android. You need to re-buy all those apps from Google. You don&#8217;t want to do that. You already spent your money on something, why pay twice for it? 

And that&#8217;s the nature of a switching cost. You pay an additional &#8220;penalty&#8221; to leave the platform and go use a competitor&#8217;s product. 

Network affects are similar, but usually occur at the relationship level. Using our Apple vs Google phone example, if my entire family has an Apple phone, and we FaceTime all the time, I&#8217;m going to be much less inclined to get an Android device because I won&#8217;t be able to use FaceTime anymore with my family. Having more people in the platform becomes a sort of self-fulfilling prophecy because they attract more and more people and then keep them there.

A really strong business is one that has very sticky network effects and high switching costs &#8211; you want people to be locked into your product because it makes it very hard for competitors to gain traction and those people act as a tractor beam for more users which means growth for your company. 

In our company, we believe that having more users, more applications/websites, and more partners in the ecosystem will act as a network effect. If more users join the platform, then we&#8217;re more likely to get more websites and applications to support it and more 3rd parties to contribute to the ecosystem as partners. Likewise, the more applications/websites that use it, will attract more users and more partners, each of which attracts more of the other two pillars. Essentially, we want Rocketansky to be the platform in the middle that connects supply and demand, kind of like the way Uber connects drivers with riders (supply >> demand). 

Wednesday was another good day. I think I put in somewhere around 13-14 hours, but that was continually interrupted by the roofing company that was here fixing a roof leak, phone calls, and text messages. All of my work time was spent writing, reading, researching, and re-writing.

I attended a webinar that was put on by one of my MBA finance professors over lunch. The webinar was was about how to do financial planning in this really weird time in history given that the pandemic that has disrupted so many industries and companies. The main point from the webinar, which I had already conceptualized and implemented in my own investing, was to focus on companies that have business models that are reinforced by the pandemic. They said tech stocks in particular are a good bet.

Traditional guidance is to take your 401k and dump it into an index fund. An index fund is basically a collection of companies that track a major index, like the S&P 500. You are investing in not one company, but a slice of each of them. Doing that spreads your investment and your risk across all the companies.

The index fund approach works when the market is going up. When the market is collectively going down, then you&#8217;re going down. Where it gets really convoluted is when you get situations like now. Some companies are going up, some are going down, and everyone is all over the map. However, in the chaos, patterns do emerge. Any of the big tech stocks are generally recovering very well &#8211; Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon, Google (MAGA, FAAMG, etc.) &#8211; and are likely to lead a recovery because their data platforms are responsible for connecting pretty much every consumer to product. Side note: Ben Thompson had a great article on Stratechery about that exact topic; if you&#8217;re not a member, be one. It&#8217;s great. 

Thankfully, I&#8217;d had a bit of foresight back in January. My 30% return on Disney&#8217;s stock last year was sold off and I moved everything from my &#8220;playground&#8221; stock fund into Apple and Microsoft. My 401k was left alone, still the 40/40/20 split between FSPTX (Fidelity technology stocks), FSKAX (Fidelity S&P index fund), and FBGKX (Fidelity growth stocks). That mix has served me well for the last decade &#8211; I was seeing 25-35% returns year over year since 2012.

My Apple and Microsoft investments have panned out. I&#8217;m only down 1/2 to 1% while Disney is down something like 25% from their high. My 401K is still down because I had 40% in the S&P index fund, but after moving that to FSPTX tech stocks and the FBGKX growth stocks it seems to be recovering well. I&#8217;m down somewhere around 6% on the year, but still up 4% for the trailing twelve months. I&#8217;ll take single digit losses in this market all day long!

I spent an hour or so, might have been two, on the phone with Paul in the afternoon continuing our chat from Tuesday night. It was a good call, I think he&#8217;s getting to the point where he&#8217;s absorbing just how much our platform could improve the security industry, so all good there.

I talked to my mom at some point during the day and she was asking about the company and progress. I told her every day is a challenge, but I was doing ok. She made the comment &#8220;maybe you need to just be like Kevin Costner in that baseball movie, the one where he builds it.&#8221; I thought about it and said &#8220;Yeah, I&#8217;m not sure that&#8217;s how this works.&#8221; But after thinking more about it, I think she might be half right &#8211; I need to have the patience to let the process work, i.e. follow that spaghetti line that McGreggor spoke of eighteen months ago during my MBA.

I took two hours to order a Dominoes supreme pan pizza and watch 1917. I hadn&#8217;t had Dominoes in maybe 15 years, opting to get pizza from the Italian place around the corner, but was intrigued because they seem to be benefiting from their investment in technology over the last few years. I was curious to see exactly how they had transformed their business from the technology perspective.

My opinion &#8211; they did a damn good job. I got text notifications when the pizza left the store, I knew when it was dropped off, the online ordering was easy, payment easy, etc. It was just a very simple user experience. Compared to Papa Johns, that&#8217;s taken a similar journey, it was better. And the pizza, surprisingly, hit the spot. Not that it was good, it wasn&#8217;t, it&#8217;s just that I was in that &#8220;I need Taco Bell&#8221; nastiness kind of mood. 

As for the movie, 1917, it was a beautiful film, but a really shitty movie. I spent most of the movie bored, un-invested in any of the characters, and curious why they would not just drive or fly the message to the commander delaying the attack&#8230; instead of asking two guys to carry it behind enemy lines to get it there. See, it&#8217;s trench warfare&#8230; if you stay on your side, you don&#8217;t run into bad guys and can get the message there. The plot made no sense. But it was pretty! 

We had our team call at 9pm. The meeting was quick at 90 minutes, comparative to prior weeks&#8217; multi-hour meetings, and I think we&#8217;re on target. Mike was nice enough to send over an XLS template with a number of financial tables we&#8217;ll need to populate (huge time saver there &#8211; thanks Mike!) so Tom took that as an action item, we chatted through the three Letters of Support we need for the NSF proposal, and discussed the network affects created by the platform more. 

The biggest thing we talked about in the meeting was the concept of our business being a process innovation rather than a purely technical one.

The way security works, in general, is you have a bunch of tasks you do in parallel to validate you are &#8220;secure&#8221;. For example, Security training &#8211; I assign 100 employees to take it, they get an email with instructions on how to go take it, some do and some don&#8217;t go do it, then I download a list a week later and then go remind folks that didn&#8217;t do it to go do it. Repeat that ad nausium until everyone finally gets it done three months later. 

It&#8217;s a shitty way to do things, but the best that&#8217;s available currently. Rocketansky hopes we can change that. 

Our solution is to do the following &#8211; every time someone logs into a website the back end of the website checks to see if they have done their training. If they haven&#8217;t, and they&#8217;ve been reminded in some predetermined number of times &#8211; or maybe not at all depending on how our customer wants to set their system &#8211; then they can&#8217;t log in and instead get redirected back to the training vendor&#8217;s website. 

In essence, we want to re-plumb these processes we use within the security industry to happen at the point when a user logs into an application. Every application. All the time. It&#8217;s automatic enforcement without all the begging and pleading.

The other major update I added to the document on Wednesday was that Rocketansky&#8217;s business model is stronger _because of_ the COVID-19 pandemic, not _in spite of_ the COVID-19 pandemic. In other words, the more remote workers there are, and the more services they need to use remotely, the larger our possible market and the more necessary we become. 

Thursday was another productive day. I traded a few emails with Mike, got a draft of the letter of support written up for him to review and redline, and spent some more time poking at the NSF doc. Nothing too major, really just minor updates, and getting things written down that I had thought of.

I also attended a webinar put on by ATDC that ran about 90 minutes titled &#8220;Falling Forward: Stories of Failures from Successful Entrepreneurs&#8221;. It was some good information and good to hear that lots of people make really dumb mistakes. I&#8217;m confident I will make some, but the one thing I kept hearing them say is that it comes down to 1) luck and 2) good advisors. Something to keep in mind.

Friday was a bit of a lost day. I had a meeting with Mike in the afternoon and it went well. He thought we were on the right track, gave some insight back on the document and our operating model, and other general comments. It was good to know I&#8217;m thinking along the right lines. It took a little while to get here, but as I alluded to before, this is a spaghetti route journey and not a straight line. Anyone who follows in my footsteps should expect that success is a collection of journeys and discoveries, not one journey or discovery, and those journeys and discoveries will never come from one place. 

In other words, days that feel a bit lost are actually ok &#8211; it means you haven&#8217;t found (yet) that piece of the puzzle you didn&#8217;t know you were looking for.