---
id: 1691
title: 'Protected: Week 22'
date: 2020-07-18T18:47:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1691
permalink: /2020/07/18/week-22/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, July 13, 2020

I started Monday tired and that continued pretty much all week. It wasn&#8217;t a tired like I stayed up to late, it&#8217;s that kind of tired you get when you&#8217;re groggy. Like my body just wouldn&#8217;t wake up. My energy level is very low. I feel like I want to do a lot of things, and the motivation is there to do them, but I don&#8217;t feel like I&#8217;ve got the energy reserves to do it. No idea where that feeling came from, but I&#8217;d like very much to get rid of it.

I also keep feeling like I&#8217;ve got a mental itch I just can&#8217;t scratch, like there is some nagging barrier that I can&#8217;t quite escape. Maybe it&#8217;s stress. It&#8217;s like I wake up and I don&#8217;t feel that knockout energy and enthusiasm. Which is odd considering that I feel enthusiastic and excited at what we&#8217;re doing &#8211; I really truly am enjoying this journey &#8211; but it&#8217;s being kept bottled up for some reason. I don&#8217;t know why.

Anyway, on to the update.

Monday was relatively uneventful. I was tired most of it and took a break in the afternoon to take a 30-minute nap on the couch. It didn&#8217;t help much. I got up groggier than I was before the nap. I honestly don&#8217;t remember much about what I did Monday. I just remember being very, very tired.

Tuesday was a repeat of Monday. Still tired and beat down. I wasn&#8217;t sick, just tired. Maybe it was stress, lack of sleep, lack of exercise, a crap diet, I honestly have no idea.

Paul came down most of Tuesday and we worked through some of the product wireframes I came up with Monday [Ahhhaa! So that&#8217;s what I did on Monday. I vaguely remember this now.] Paul liked them, we agreed on most things, made a couple tweaks here and there. I realized while we were chatting we needed a terms and conditions page. Another thing I need to get from our lawyer.

Paul and I also talked about equity, employee stock plans, and all that kind of stuff. We had our Founders Call that night at 9 PM and walked through our conversation with Tom. 

What we decided on the call was to use the Wealthfront plan for equity. The Wealthfront plan is interesting in that it gives employees four opportunities to get equity in the company and avoids lengthy cliffs where an employee feels like he or she feels like they are not accruing more equity. People leave when they&#8217;re just getting a paycheck.

The Wealthfront plan works like this: 

  1. You get equity when you join the company. That&#8217;s dependent on the market you&#8217;re in, but is generally like 0.04% of total equity. Call it 4,000 shares on a 10,000,000 share pool. The usual 1/4 rule applies; 1 year cliff where you don&#8217;t get any shares until after year 1 and then you get the rest at 1/36 each of the remaining 36 months for a total 4 year term.
  2. Performance grants. If you&#8217;re in the top 10% of the company, then you get a percentage of equity increase based on your position and role. So call it a 10% bump on that first allocation of 4,000 shares or 400 more shares. 
  3. Promotion grants. If you go from being a software engineer to a senior software engineer then your equity percentage goes from 0.04% to 0.08% to reflect your new role. The person getting the promotion would then get the increase between 0.04%, their initial rate, and 0.08%, their new rate. So they get in this example another 4,000 shares or 0.04% equity.
  4. Evergreen grants that occur at year 2.5 and go for 4 years. At year 2.5, an employee is vested in over half their equity from hiring, probably got a performance grant if they&#8217;re good, and maybe a promotion. Issuing another grant at year 2.5, with the same 1/4 rule, means that by the time their first grant is about to expire, they&#8217;re already starting to accrue another tranche of equity that would incentivize them to remain with the company.

At any given time, an employee should always be accruing equity, except for that first year where we really don&#8217;t know if the person we hired is the rockstar we thought they were. People can fake performance for six months, a year is much more difficult, hence the 1 year cliff.

Paul, Tom, and I think it&#8217;s a good plan and aligned with the employee and customer centric company we want to build. It&#8217;ll mean more effort on our part to manage it, but our employees that come along with us on this journey deserve to be part of it in more than just name.

Wednesday was another day of being worn down. No idea why. I did some reading, took a nap, and &#8230; that&#8217;s about it. I worked a little on the stock plan from the night before, but just couldn&#8217;t focus.

Thursday was interesting and the day&#8217;s journey highlights the high of highs and the low of lows that comes with launching your own startup. I reflected on the &#8220;A Day in the Life of an Entrepreneur&#8221; graphic hanging on my wall occasionally and it always makes me smile. I also, for the first time this week, felt like I wasn&#8217;t about to fall asleep at my keyboard.

Thursday morning, after our usual 10 AM standup call, I had a conversation with James, a CISO, entrepreneur, and security podcaster. He was introduced to me through Kevin, a friend from grad school and a CEO that I chat with every few weeks. 

The call with James was amazing. Not only was he a great person to talk to, but he loved the idea of what we&#8217;re working on. As we were wrapping up the call &#8211; which went 20 minutes late because we just couldn&#8217;t stop talking &#8211; he made a comment to me that I will likely never forget: &#8220;So how do I buy? I want to buy this.&#8221; 

I wasn&#8217;t quite sure what to say because in my own mind I&#8217;m thinking, &#8220;Holy shit, we haven&#8217;t even got the prototype done yet!&#8221;. Thinking fast, I countered with &#8220;We&#8217;re wrapping development up on our prototype in the next couple weeks and I&#8217;d love for you to take a poke at it. If you&#8217;re interested, I&#8217;d really appreciate your input. One thing we really want to get right is what we&#8217;re doing for our customers and make something that actually is useful. Like we both said before, there are too many solutions that don&#8217;t fix the real problems in our industry &#8211; I don&#8217;t want to be that above anything else.&#8221;

He said he&#8217;d be happy to and seemed genuinely excited. 

I think I may have made my first sale. Without a product. 

Welcome to founder life.

I was pretty excited. I sent out an email to Tom and Paul right after we wrapped up the call basically stating &#8211; &#8220;We got a customer&#8230; where&#8217;s our product?&#8221;. Super high excitement.

Mike, our advisor, sent me a text roughly 20 minutes later: &#8220;Look up Trusona. Just found them in a webinar.&#8221;

So I went and checked them out. Cold chills. They&#8217;re doing what we&#8217;re doing and have $38 million to do it with. Remember that asteroid that wiped out the dinosaurs? That was my mood. Competitors&#8230; my kryptonite.

I took my one minute to feel the defeat, then marched on. I&#8217;m getting better with that. So I started analyzing everything I could about them and came up with a few perspectives.

First, they&#8217;ve been in the game for five years. I&#8217;d never heard of them. It seems like a long time for someone to be around, yet be not prevalent. Yes, they were doing passwordless authentication, however, it was reliant on QR codes. A user still had to pick up their phone and scan the QR code on the screen to get in. That seemed clumsy to me. And required human intervention. My vision is that the user doesn&#8217;t need to do anything other than go to the website they want to get into. There&#8217;s a big difference there.

I was reminded by something James said to me that morning about API security. James comment was this &#8211; there isn&#8217;t any API security platforms out there. He&#8217;s looked. A lot. That matched the same comment that DJ made to me a couple months ago. And the same problem we ran into on Wednesday morning.

See a theme there? Good. Me too. 

Thursday afternoon was spent working on the Employee Stock Option Plan and amended and restated Operating Agreement. When Tom, Paul, and I started the company we each took 33 1/3 percent. There wasn&#8217;t a reason for anything else. Now that we have &#8220;employees&#8221;, we need to be prepared to offer them some equity for above average work. It&#8217;s the right thing to do. So that was most of the afternoon &#8211; reading 50-odd pages of legalese. Ugh. Not my favorite.

On Friday morning, after we wrapped up our 10 AM daily standup, Paul and I hopped on the phone and chatted a bit about this API thing. The short of it is that we&#8217;re both going to spend some time researching it this weekend. It feels soft and mushy and it needs to be analyzed. I made a note in my agenda with Mike for Friday afternoon to ask him about it too since they&#8217;re deep in AWS with his company.

I was also feeling great. Whatever tiredness I had at the beginning of the week had passed and was back to my usual self. No idea what was going on, but much better come Friday.

We also found three more software engineers looking for work. All of them are interested in the same setup we gave Jon, Ben, and Josh &#8211; a Letter of Recommendation and verifiable work experience in exchange for their time. It is quite possible that as soon as next week our team could grow from six to nine. 

At one level that scares me a bit and I expressed as much to Paul. A few resources can self manage. A full squad of developers need a leader. We&#8217;re too young to dilute senior leaders, like Paul and myself, to managing tasks day to day, we&#8217;ve got other areas to focus on. Whoever we bring on is very low cost labor on one hand, but the cost may be material in terms of time and focus. It will need to be managed closely.

On the flip side, it&#8217;s a tremendous opportunity. I&#8217;ve done a massive amount of reading this week about funding, sales, and how companies fail. Most fail by suicide, not murder. In other words, they failed internally. They lost sight of the product they were building **_for the customer_**. I can&#8217;t emphasize that enough. If we just stay focused on that goal, a product that customers love, I think most other things will fall into place. We can&#8217;t make **_the_** _**right product**_ without developers.

The meeting with Mike Friday afternoon went well. We talked through the usual stuff, updates on dev, customer discover interviews, and timelines. He agreed we should apply to YC and the Atlanta Venture conference in October. Worst case is we get denied, best case is we get accepted and come out of stealth mode with a bang. That&#8217;s a bit scary, but we need to do it at some point.

All in all, a good week. By the end of the week I was feeling much more energetic and getting back into my groove with the company.