---
id: 1647
title: 'Protected: Week 20'
date: 2020-07-03T19:38:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1647
permalink: /2020/07/03/week-20/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, June 29, 2020

The week really began Saturday, although it would be more apt to describe this week as just a continuation of last week because I never took a break.

Tom came over Saturday and the two of us spent most of the time floating around the pool, smoking ribs on the Red Egg, and talking shop. Shop talk revolved almost exclusively around two topics; the company and Xbox/PlayStation. I&#8217;d say it was probably weighted 80/18 with the other 2% revolving around the tasks necessary to cook dinner.

Tom had made it significantly further than me on the Startup School reading and had an immense amount of insight. Just how deep that vein of knowledge ran became apparent to me throughout the day as we talked and I planned to earmark most of Sunday towards exploring Paul Graham&#8217;s website and the Startup School materials in more detail.

And that was basically what I did all day Sunday. I think I spent close to nine or ten hours Sunday just reading Startup School material, the links within those materials, and then watching the videos in Startup School itself. All of the material is as great as Tom led me to believe. 

I highly, highly recommend it to any other founder or entrepreneur. 

Side note, many of the things in Startup School and in Paul Graham&#8217;s essays we&#8217;d actually done without any awareness of Paul Graham&#8217;s guidance. It was refreshing to see that we had arrived at the same suggested outcomes without being aware of the right way. Personal validation, check.

Monday started early and was really a continuation of Sunday. I couldn&#8217;t sleep much Sunday night, my brain wouldn&#8217;t shut off, so ended up just pulling out the iPad and doing some reading on the Startup School website until I got up and started the day. Most of the afternoon was spent trying to figure out what we needed so we could start writing a Windows compatible app and other architecture design type stuff. I also worked on getting some sample OIDC programs configured and installed so we could start testing the prototype in the next few weeks.

Josh started with us on Monday. It was a bit of a fire-hose situation, and honestly, we could have probably handled it better. We started the meeting, Josh was deer in headlights, and then it occurred to me that he had no idea what the hell we were talking about &#8211; we had never really briefed him into what we were doing. I made a mental note that we&#8217;d do that for the next &#8220;new hire&#8221; even though we&#8217;re not hiring anyone and it&#8217;s all unpaid internships at this stage (because nobody in the company is taking any salary).

Tuesday was relatively uneventful. One noteworthy item &#8211; our record in the NSF grant database changed ownership from someone I did not know to the original Program Director we had been assigned at NSF. I guess there is motion behind the scenes &#8230; kind of like a rustling in the bushes. We&#8217;ll find out in September if a bunny or velociraptor jumps out. 

I also spent some time working, or trying to work, on writing the Windows agent. I got nowhere. I put a post up on Facebook asking my developer friends what IDE they recommended; VS Code was the almost unanimous answer (that and Visual Studio). 

Trying to do development on the Windows agent reminded me of the old Desktop Security Portal agent my team wrote 10-odd years ago. It was basically a way for us to do inventory of BYOD PCs in an environment where I couldn&#8217;t afford to buy a full blown NAC or MDM solution. It was relatively simple and kind of took on a life of its own. We used it all the way through late 2019.

Putting what we wrote into business terms: We avoided a spend in 2009-2010 of about $150,000. Assuming nine years of maintenance at 20%, or $30,000 a year, we avoided an expense of about $420,000.

The ability to apply cheap point-solutions to solve specific problems cannot be understated in terms of operating efficiency vs large COTS platforms.

On Wednesday, I spent a good amount of time with Paul working through design, talking about our goals for the company, company culture, etc. It was a lot of big thinking, in a vision development kind of way. It has been good to have him down here once a week so we can chat and 

Wednesday was kind of fascinating and really amazing in an odd way. First, I took a moment to snap a picture of myself working on the Rocketansky UI, kind of like a little memento. Sometime later, I was sitting by the pool taking a break from the technical work and enjoying a beer, while I continued to work by watching another Startup School video, ironically on time management, when I snapped another picture. My brain was kind of fried from being in the technical guts all day and needed a bit of a reset. I uploaded the two pictures to Facebook because I use Facebook as a kind of digital memory diary via its &#8220;this day in history&#8221; feature. I made a comment to the effect of &#8220;a day in the life of a startup founder&#8221; and went back to my video lecture. 

I had a number of people comment about it, either asking what we were doing or wishing us luck. Out of that post, I had two friends reach out directly and want to get involved.

The first, Jon, was someone that I had given some career advice to several years ago about how to get into the tech industry. Since then, he&#8217;s done his AWS cert, taken some coding classes on Coursera, and a coding bootcamp at GA Tech. He offered to help write some code if we&#8217;d be willing to push some stuff his way. He and I traded emails and it looks like he&#8217;ll start next week. Refer back to my note about briefing people in &#8211; he and I will connect on Friday before he joins the development standup on Monday. 🙂

Founder motto: break things and adapt, including your onboarding process.

The second was from Victor, a friend I&#8217;ve known&#8230; twenty years? Twenty five? I honestly don&#8217;t know when we met, but it&#8217;s been a long, long time. Anyway, he recently finished up his grad school and made a comment on Facebook about another friend of his that was at Atlanta Tech Village with his startup. I asked for an intro via a DM to him and we had some conversation thereafter. The short of it is that Victor&#8217;s going to make an intro to his friend, and from what I read about him last night, I think we have similar opinions on numerous issues. It should be a good chat.

What struck me, quite poignantly, about this event was two things. First, the power of social media is fascinating in that it allows you connect to people you don&#8217;t see often enough and material things come from those conversations. Second, I realized sometime later that I haven&#8217;t really shared with many people what I&#8217;ve been up since I left my last company. I keep my Facebook friends list fairly well curated, unlike my LinkedIn connections, so tend to share more personal things on Facebook &#8230; but hadn&#8217;t really shared anything.

I think the reason why is that I&#8217;ve been afraid of the judgement that comes with my startup failing. It&#8217;s like I wanted to keep it a secret, not to protect the idea, but to protect myself from feeling like a failure, if I indeed do fail.

It&#8217;s illogical. Feeling like a failure, and being viewed as a failure, are two different things; one internal and one external. They&#8217;re not the same.

Coincidentally, Paul and I had a long conversation about this over lunch on Wednesday, before the Facebook post. What he and I arrived at is that it is very difficult for us to fail and the definition of failure is very nuanced. 

Succinctly put, we cannot fail. Will the business launch? No idea. Will we go bankrupt and lose our asses? No idea. Will we make some mistakes? Almost certainly. But both Paul and I are of the opinion that no matter the end state, the adventure that this epic has put us on is one in which we learn every day. So in terms of failure, the only way to fail is not to learn. 

Something my step dad said to me once, many years ago, &#8220;every education has a price&#8221;. That is true in life, love, and business. I&#8217;m looking at the money I burn from savings as an investment in an education that I can get nowhere else. Paul was of the same opinion. 

With that said, it&#8217;s also scary as fuck. I&#8217;m really not trying to oversell sunshine and roses here.

Thursday morning I sat down at the computer after a good run (5K @ 12:05/mile, not my best, but great for being 25 lbs heavier and only a week into this year&#8217;s training calendar) to catch up on various things, one of which is to update the blog today before I forget all the good stuff. To give you a sense behind the scenes, I&#8217;ve published through week 11, skipping week 10, and week 12 through week 20 remain a jumbled mess of notes and cryptic statements like &#8220;had a meeting&#8221;. I have no idea WTF I was thinking with that note to myself.

Anyway, one profound thing did come to me this morning. We recently had two people join us to write code and consequently they updated LinkedIn. We don&#8217;t have a company page, hell, I haven&#8217;t even added a title for myself or publicly even listed anything about Rocketansky other than legal filings to form the company. We don&#8217;t have a twitter page, LinkedIn page, etc. The reason why is the same as why I didn&#8217;t post anything to Facebook; hiding from my possible self-judgement of failure. 

With that said, I&#8217;m sure there are tactical and strategic reasons not to overly publish what we&#8217;re working on, i.e. &#8220;stealth mode&#8221;. Note, I hate that term. It just sounds so fake. Anyway, at the very least, it might be worth just making a page and being nondescript about it. I mean, we&#8217;ve got a website with our names on it&#8230; but that&#8217;s about it. 

I chatted with Tom about it, since he&#8217;s actually sitting here next to me today doing some co-working, and we went ahead and registered Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn. I&#8217;m sure there are others out there we need, but these will suffice for now. And of course, true to form, &#8220;Rocketansky&#8221; is already in use everywhere. So we went with &#8220;RocketanskyToo&#8221;&#8230; because we&#8217;re Rocketansky, too.

I thought it was clever and memorable. Tom was skeptical. We came to the conclusion that we can always change it later. We&#8217;ll discuss with Paul tonight over dinner.