---
id: 1446
title: 'Protected: Week 7'
date: 2020-04-05T20:44:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1446
permalink: /2020/04/05/week-7/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, March 30, 2020

I intended to really start digging into development on Monday and Tuesday. I was feeling a lot of energy after the meeting with Tom and Paul on Sunday. The first few hours Monday went well. I found a number of reference architectures and some code snippets that will be helpful. I tossed copies of the licenses to our attorney and had him verify that I wasn&#8217;t crazy in how I interpreted them. Two of my fears with the code is that we will either a) violate someone else&#8217;s copyright and end up in a protracted legal battle that we couldn&#8217;t sustain or b) that we will create intellectual property that we couldn&#8217;t protect as our own. In this case, he agreed with my interpretation so we&#8217;ll move forward with using parts of them for the prototype&#8230; if I can get them to work. It&#8217;s been a two steps forward, one step back kind of thing with the code because what we&#8217;re doing is inherently different. If nothing else, the code will serve as a good learning opportunity.

I also found a guy who does some consulting work on the type of code we need to write. We don&#8217;t have the capital to bring him on now, but if we did, he&#8217;s the type of guy we&#8217;ll need. I filed that one away for later.

I forgot how fun coding can be. I&#8217;ve been listening to old 80&#8217;s almost non-stop lately while I code. A little Twister Sister, some Guns N&#8217; Roses, you name it. Big hair. Good times.

I looked up from the monitor the other night and it was suddenly 3AM. It&#8217;s been a long time since I&#8217;ve been in the &#8220;flow&#8221;, to borrow a Designing Your Life term, like this. It was a good realization and its small moments like that which reinforce, and reassure me, I&#8217;m on a path that is good for me. I didn&#8217;t really want to go to bed, but on the flip side, knew I really should. Staying up late like that takes me back to the early days, call it late 90&#8217;s and early 00&#8217;s, playing CounterStrike and working in IT at two startups (one technically wasn&#8217;t, but we were starting a new hosting business that was clearly in startup mode and the culture met the criteria). I forgot how energized you feel on nights like that.

While the sample code has been helpful, it&#8217;s like trying to decipher stereo instructions. I feel like the kid that can&#8217;t swim who was tossed in the deep end of the pool and expected to make a go of it. I felt like I made very little progress by the end of the day Tuesday, but after talking to Tom in the early evening, I felt a bit better about it all. While I didn&#8217;t make it to the side of the pool, and am bobbing up and down and basically drowning, I was able to get used to the water, get used to the sensation of drowning, and the notion that I need to learn to swim. I guess that&#8217;s as good a first step as any.

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday were a bit of a write-down in terms of progress on the startup. Kim and I were sharing an office and it became clear that we needed separate spaces. I enjoyed having her company and having her nearby, but it&#8217;s hard to get into the flow because it&#8217;s too easy to get distracted. After two days of moving furniture, cleaning carpets, Advil for my back, and a beer or two, I finally got us both situated with our own space. 

I quite like my new space. I&#8217;ve got my books, a reading chair, plenty of desk space, lots of monitors, and a pair of Polk TSi 400&#8217;s for some ambiance. Everything is hooked together and wired so I can flip monitors or music around to the various inputs &#8211; Nintendo NES, desktop PC, or laptop &#8211; and stream pretty much any audio or video source I need. The reading chair in the corner serves as a great place for a cup of coffee while I get through my daily reading or a place to go at night and do some casual work. Best of all &#8211; I&#8217;ve been informed &#8220;you can do what you want&#8221; for decorations in my office. Yes, I understand that doesn&#8217;t mean what it really means but I like to dream.

I had the opportunity on Thursday to catch up with a previous coworker, Carl, and offer him some advice on a startup he&#8217;s working on. It was a good chat and enjoyed talking business planning nuts and bolts with him since we&#8217;re on the same journey. 

Friday was a wash, entirely, with almost no progress made on anything. The first part of the day was a trip to Costco and Publix for food amidst the quarantine, which took WAY longer than I intended it to take, then spent the afternoon trying to finish getting my office put back together. I got a couple miscellaneous things done, but nothing really significant. I chatted with another prior coworker, Tim, in the early evening and caught up with him then talked to a friend from school, Ben, that I hadn&#8217;t caught up with lately.

Friday night before bed I was feeling a little harsh on myself. I didn&#8217;t accomplish nearly the amount of coding I wanted to get done during the week, but on the flip side, I felt like I&#8217;d crossed off a big hurdle with the office arrangements, especially because Kim will be here until June and the way we were working before was untenable. I slept on that feeling hoping it&#8217;d change come morning.

And it did. Saturday morning I got up, checked my email like I always do, and found an email in my inbox that said our pitch had been accepted to the NSF SBIR Phase 1 program and we&#8217;d been asked to submit a full proposal! The SBIR fund is important to us &#8211; it&#8217;s basically our lifeline to keep the company moving after I run out of money in my savings account. The feeling of self-angst I had changed entirely for the better &#8211; I was very glad I had tackled the office project when I did as I was about to be _really_ busy.