---
id: 1632
title: 'Protected: Week 17'
date: 2020-06-14T19:22:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1632
permalink: /2020/06/14/week-17/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, June 8, 2020

Paul, Ben, and I met Monday morning in our first scrum meeting from 10AM until about noon. We took a lunch break until 1:30, then met again until somewhere between 2:30PM and 3:00PM. During the meetings we talked through last weeks design efforts, figured out our scrum meeting cadence (every day at 10AM), started looking at table structure for the database in Dynamo, decided that we should disable the AWS regions we&#8217;re not planning on using (note, you can&#8217;t actually do that as I found out), we standardized on the N. Virginia datacenter (US-East-1), setup the AWS command line interface, setup a Kanboard in Trello for us to use so we cna track tasks, and I sent Ben a copy of the Phoenix Project. 

It was a busy day. I felt like all three of us gelled together well and I was feeling excited, but I was also scared to say that. There was some part of me that felt like I was waiting for the other shoe to drop. 

It&#8217;s also probably not healthy that I have the NSF proposal website on constant refresh to see if there are any changes. We won&#8217;t hear anything back until September at the earliest, so there&#8217;s absolutely no reason to hit refresh on the site. I think it&#8217;s more like I just want to prove to myself that&#8217;s it real or maybe it&#8217;s hard letting go of something that I poured every waking thought into for the last several weeks.

I distracted myself by getting users setup in LucidChart for Paul, Ben, Tom, and me. We need to get a more formal infrastructure setup for us, a code repository and such, so Paul took those as action items. I suspect we&#8217;ll use AWS CodeCommit as our repo and the associated CI/CD pipeline.

Things really are starting to feel real now that we&#8217;ve transitioned into development.

Tuesday was a repeat of Monday. We had our second ever daily standup meeting at 10AM then I had an interview with a potential new hire, a guy named Josh, that graduated from UGA&#8217;s MIS program. He was recommended to us from Mike, our advisor, who knew Josh&#8217;s parents. Josh was looking for a full time paying job, but due to COVID, wasn&#8217;t able to find one yet and wanted something to do to get some experience in the meantime. 

I liked him and thought he&#8217;d be a good fit to work with Ben, Paul, and me. I passed him on to talk to Tom since Paul, Tom, and I had agreed to all interview the first 50 hires personally.

On Wednesday, Paul came down about 10 AM and we spent about 30 minutes with Ben talking through the daily tasks. Paul and I then spent about 6 hours working on architecture and program flow. I&#8217;d love to say we came up with a ton of useful stuff, but the reality is that the more we dug into the design, the more we realized there are a ton of edge cases we need to figure out. 

Regardless, we did come up with immediate first steps &#8211; start building the API core in AWS Lambda. We know we&#8217;ll need to use a fast language, probably Golang (Go), but since both Paul and Ben know Python, that&#8217;s what we&#8217;re going to build the prototype in. It&#8217;ll mean some rework later on to optimize things for better performance, but right now we need very fast development. Our priority is to get a bare minimum prototype done to see if it&#8217;s possible to even make our product and to see if customers see value in it. Fail fast.

Thursday and Friday were basically rehashed versions of Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. Paul, Ben, and I continued to iterate and work out design, trialing different things, learning, exploring&#8230; I mean, basically just doing everything we could to move the needle forward. 

Things are starting to feel real. We&#8217;ve started to lay the foundation of what we think is the core product, we&#8217;re working well together, and it&#8217;s kind of off to the races from a technical perspective.