---
id: 1459
title: 'Protected: Week 8'
date: 2020-04-12T22:15:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1459
permalink: /2020/04/12/week-8/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, April 6, 2020

Monday was a pretty productive day. I was excited at the news from NSF on Saturday and that gave me some added energy to crank on getting that process started. I also had an adviser meeting with Mike in the afternoon and had setup some time to chat with Tom about NSF after his kids were in bed Monday night. 

Most of the afternoon was spent setting up accounts in the various NSF portals. The process is about what you would expect &#8211; it&#8217;s bouncing from one government website to another to get different identifiers setup, all of the sites asking questions that you&#8217;re unsure of, and you make your best guess as to what they are really asking for. You&#8217;ll also find that you need different pieces of information from all over the place to actually make any sort of progress.

For example, you need a Dun & Bradstreet number (D&B) to setup your account on the SAM.gov site, but to do that you need to have your company already registered with the state, a tax identifier issued (EIN/TIN), and various other things. The D&B number can take up to two weeks to get and the state filing and tax IDs take another day or two. So just to get registered for one site on the NSF side, you have to jump through a number of other processes first. 

Thankfully, I was well aware of what we needed and started this process back in March when we founded the company officially. I had already received the D&B number, EIN/TINs we needed, and had everything ready to go except the bank account. I started setting that up Monday night, but of course I needed everyone&#8217;s SSN, drivers license number, etc. so that got derailed in the short term. I&#8217;ll get that together and go up the bank to sign all the forms later this week.

I had a good chat with Mike, my adviser, and gave him an update on the preceding two weeks. Namely that we&#8217;d (i) started some prototyping, (ii) found some sample code, (iii) found a potential consultant we could use to jump start some of the more difficult authentication code, (iv) had made it through the first gate with Create-X, and (v) had made it through the first gate with NSF. Mike mentioned checking out a company called &#8220;Zero Password&#8221;, a new startup that the Netscape founder James Clark was working on. I scribbled down the name and put it on my to-do list for Tuesday. He also commented that I should check out Okta since they just had their user conference. That was already on my radar and something I planned to visit this week. It was a good chat with Mike, as they always are, and then had a quick dinner before jumping on the phone with Tom. 

The call with Tom went fine. We walked though the NSF paperwork, cranked on the various registration websites we needed accounts with, talked through the budget, and then dropped off the call after about 3 hours. It was somewhere around 11 before I wrapped up for the day which meant I&#8217;d done somewhere around 13-14 hours of work for the day. The weird thing, it didn&#8217;t feel like a 13-14 hour work day. I mean I was a little tired, but at the same time, it was like I couldn&#8217;t put it down. I would have gladly kept working if discretion hadn&#8217;t won out.

Tuesday morning I woke up and started my usual warmup routine &#8211; a bowl of oatmeal and a coffee while I read the Stratechery daily update, read through Geopolitical Futures, read through Benedict Evan&#8217;s newsletter, read through Stocktwits Daily Rip, skim the Finimize articles, and then read through Robinhood Snacks. I can generally knock that out in about 30 minutes but if something important catches my eye then I&#8217;ll zoom in and spend a little bit more time on it.

After the warmup, I started looking into the Zero Password note I&#8217;d scribbled down on Monday when talking to Mike. I couldn&#8217;t find anything having to do with James Clark, but what I did find had to do with MobileIron. And I immediately got that resounding feeling of defeat in my gut the more I read. Apparently, MobileIron was launching a new(ish) product, their endpoint management suite, that did almost exactly what we are trying to build. That took a lot of the wind out of my sails and I shifted from &#8220;yay! adventure!&#8221; mode to &#8220;Fuck. I&#8217;m defeated. This is all a waste of time and money. I&#8217;m going to fail. Fuck&#8221; mode. Kim made the mistake of coming into my office shortly thereafter, looked at me and said &#8220;you seem cranky&#8221;, I said &#8220;I am&#8221;, so she backed out of the office and closed the door. 

After a little mental meltdown, I revisited the situation and reminded myself of a few things: 

First, if you have an idea that nobody has ever done before, you are probably in an area littered with corpses and landmines and you&#8217;re at even more risk than you think, you just don&#8217;t know it yet. Steve Jobs didn&#8217;t invent the computer, Bill Gates didn&#8217;t invent the operating system; they just did it better than what came before. The same lesson is evident all over the place &#8211; Netflix wasn&#8217;t the first place to rent movies. So competition is normal. That&#8217;s a good thing. 

Second, looking at it another way, finding that MobileIron has a similar product to us is, in some ways, great. It means there&#8217;s a market there, that there are customers who have a need, and that we&#8217;re on the right path towards building something that&#8217;s going to be wanted. How we do it is the real key; how we compete.

I responded to Mike shortly thereafter and he sent over the right link to the ZeroPW website. He made the comment to remind myself of Duo, they weren&#8217;t the first in the two factor authentication market, but were the most successful because they focused on what customers really wanted, i.e. a simplified user experience. It was good to see that I had arrived at the same thought pattern Mike suggested. I was feeling a bit better by this point.

Right up until I went to Duo&#8217;s website and read about their new Device Health functionality. The blog post went on and on talking about how their customers wanted the product, how they had forty beta testers, and so on. 

This was the product I had envisioned in 2018 during our capstone. The one that everyone in the program told me made no sense. The one that we abandoned, essentially, until now. We were two years ahead of our time. The perfect amount of time to develop a product and launch. 

_Fuck. We&#8217;re going to fail. I&#8217;m a failure. What have I done?_

These two days are great examples a startup founder&#8217;s life. Exciting highs, followed by deep lows, a mental reset, and then you re-engage back into the fray wiser and more energized. There are many parallels to building the Caterham here.

Wednesday was productive. I spent most of the day getting NSF proposal writing done. I also opened a bank account at Bank of America (BofA) after getting no response from Wells Fargo (Wells).

The Wells / BofA thing is interesting and is a classic example of good user experience (UX) versus a bad one, to tie in the story from earlier in the week about MobileIron. The Wells and BofA websites were relatively similar in their questions and needed the same information to open a business account. That&#8217;s not surprising &#8211; they&#8217;re under the same federal banking obligations. The real difference was the post-form submission process. On the Wells website, they push you into a final confirmation page that has several PDF forms you download. The PDFs are pre-populated with the information from all the questions you answered through the website. 

Except the PDF files were missing information, had pre-filled information that I wasn&#8217;t prompted for during the web portion, and required me to complete the form a second time to essentially verify all of the information I&#8217;d already verified during the web portion. I had to make numerous corrections in the PDF and it was all quite duplicative. 

BofA on the other hand, went through the website questions, took my debit card payment to fund the account, and then sent me an automated email for me to attach our Certificate of Organization and send it back to them. Super easy process and twice as efficient as the Wells process. 

And that story highlights the biggest difference, in my opinion, of a forward leaning organization and an backwards leaning one. It&#8217;s clear from Wells&#8217; process that they traditionally used a paper process and viewed the website as an augment to the existing process, not a net new way to streamline operations. The BofA process streamlined and went so far as to minimize the time required for the user, low barrier to entry. It was a good user experience because i) the website worked as advertised, ii) as a user, I was never entering in more data than was absolutely necessary, and iii) the output matched what I expected to be output based on my input. Solid design.

So Wells lost a customer and BofA gained one because they simply outperformed the competition.

I want to say that the Wells / BofA competition lesson stuck with me. It didn&#8217;t and Thursday morning was another kick in the nuts like Tuesday. 

The story goes like this:

I rolled over in bed and started going through my email, the usual routine, and saw that Stratechery&#8217;s Daily Update was another interview with Okta&#8217;s CEO Todd McKinnon. The guy that runs Stratechery, Ben Thompson, had done an interview with Todd McKinnon back in May 2018 where Todd had talked about a vision for Okta&#8217;s platform that was in the same general direction as to what I had conceptualized the security industry needed several years ago when I first heard about Zero Trust. I wasn&#8217;t reading Stratechery at the time, I didn&#8217;t become aware of it until March 2019, but saw the old 2018 article when I was reading the archives. 

The new interview was about the outcome of Okta&#8217;s conference since it had just happened last week. The conference was switched from in person to remote just four weeks from the conference date so they talked about that a bit. That&#8217;s a hell of a lot of logistics, but was a &#8216;whatever&#8217; thing for me as it had no bearing. 

The real nuggets I was looking for came out towards the bottom, and after reading them, immediately went into soul crushing defeat mode before I aimlessly tossed my iPad away and began staring at the ceiling. A few things popped out at me immediately. First, they had over 4,000 new sales leads. Second, the conference went from 6,000 people to over 15,000 people because it was remote and the barrier to entry in terms of time and cost had decreased dramatically for attendees. Third, Okta&#8217;s new Device Insights program is essentially what we envisioned our platform to be.

My headspace was swimming with negativity. 

_Why bother? How do we compete with a company that has vastly more resources than we do and when they already have thousands of sales leads and a product that works and vendor partnerships and &#8230; what the fuck am I doing? This is just a big fucking waste of time and money. I&#8217;m slowly going broke trying to launch something that is already out here. What am I bringing that people can&#8217;t get elsewhere?_ 

_Fuck._

_Do I quit? Now. While I&#8217;m not too far out of my savings?_

_Why can&#8217;t things just go my fucking way for one goddamn time? Just give me a fucking break._

So I climbed out of bed, dragging an aura of impending failure, doom, and defeat down the hall to the coffee machine, and then onwards to my office where I booted up and started figuring out how the fuck I was going to solve this one.

After 18 minutes of stewing my angst in a cauldron like a witch stirring her brew, I arrived at the following:

On the plus side, if they have 4,000 new leads &#8211; there is a market and people have pain around identity and device validation. From experience, I know Okta is expensive. It was too expensive for us at my last company. One of our primary competitive differences is cost. We want to build our infrastructure on the lowest cost platforms we can so we can offer a much lower price point. Second, in the interview Todd made the comment that &#8220;Wedge One (which is Okta&#8217;s conceptual name for their platform) is getting fat&#8221;. That&#8217;s a good sign that they are hitting the point in the market where they see increasing customer acquisition costs in relation to lower life time value costs for customers because they have too many features that are expensive to support. It&#8217;s the classic Microsoft Word problem &#8211; people use 5% of what Word can do, yet you need to pay for 100% of the features. Cable TV, same thing &#8211; get 100 channels, pay for 100 channels, people watch 10 of them. Our pricing model fixes that &#8211; you only pay for the parts of the platform you use on a per use basis.

Maybe we can compete after all? 

Friday didn&#8217;t go much better, in fact worse, in my opinion. Our Create-X panel interview was scheduled for 12:30 and Paul and I were going to join to represent Rocketansky. Tom was planning to attend originally, but had a work conflict and had to bow out which was fine &#8211; the interview with the panel was only fifteen minutes. There were three folks representing Create-X on the panel.

The call started on time and I immediately knew it wasn&#8217;t going to go well. I was still sucking wind mentally from the MobileIron and Okta news and flubbed the pitch to the panel right out of the gate. I just couldn&#8217;t get my words out in a coherent way. I am positive that I did not come across as confident in our idea, business model, or plan. Which is accurate &#8211; I wasn&#8217;t confident in any of those things at all. I think I conveyed what we were doing enough that they understood, but the reality is I wasn&#8217;t happy with how I presented. I just couldn&#8217;t get my legs under me.

At the end of the interview the panel said their concerns were i) we didn&#8217;t have a product yet and ii) that competing on price &#8211; even though I explained _**we&#8217;re not competing on price, we&#8217;re competing with more cost-efficient infrastructure, thereby able to offer a lower cost to the customer**_ &#8211; wasn&#8217;t enough to secure a competitive advantage. 

The response we got this year was much the same as last year and the meeting ended with the classic words &#8220;we&#8217;ll be in touch&#8221;. I went ahead and wrote that one off.

After the panel interview I needed to get away. I was &#8230; I had no idea what I was honestly. Angry, sad, disappointed. I felt like a failure. It seemed like that panel was the last straw. I needed to run. Both literally and figuratively.

I threw on my running clothes, laced up my shoes, and yelled &#8220;bye&#8221; to my wife as bailed out the door. I made it to the corner of the neighborhood before Paul called. 

He and I did a debrief call as I did my warmup walk. His opinion was the same as mine. He said it was helpful for him to join because it helped solidify some things in his mind around what we were doing. While that was good to hear, it&#8217;s also a bit of a problem. If the person that&#8217;s supposed to be doing the development doesn&#8217;t have this in his head after almost a year of talking about it then we really have some serious business model problems that we have to figure out.

After hanging up with Paul I just wandered. I never even ran. I just couldn&#8217;t work up the energy for it. It was a nice day, sun shining, so just took the time to think and walk. I found the &#8220;Life sucks&#8221; playlist on Spotify; that was the soundtrack to my life as I wandered aimlessly throughout Midtown.

My wife texted me after about two hours later asking if I was alive (literally). I said yes and would be home in a little while. Thankfully she didn&#8217;t reply, I wasn&#8217;t in the mood to talk to anyone. 

It occurred to me as I walked that I didn&#8217;t want to go home. I felt numb, heavy, like my head was in a fog. Dazed. It was like there was a scream inside me that I could never unleash, yet was always right under the surface. I wondered why the tears never came. 

At some point I decided I had to go home, even though everything inside me revolted at the idea. I had no idea what I was going to do when I got there. I just knew I had to go back. 

About a mile from the house I spotted a small park next to a church. I&#8217;ve run, walked, and driven by this particular park hundreds, if not thousands, of times and never noticed that it was there. Set down into a valley between two hills, it has a small creek that runs through it, a few benches, and a hanging bench swing. 

The park was deserted. Not a car or person in sight. The only sound was from a yard crew blowing leaves somewhere off in the far distance. I walked down the curved path to the center of the valley, slipping on some loose brush and landing in a heap on the gravel, which I took great pleasure in punctuating with a string of epitaphs that would make a hooker blush, and made my way to the swing. 

I sat down, pulled off my ear phones, and just sat there, drifting to and fro on the swing. The swing reminded me of the swing we used to have when I was a kid at my mom&#8217;s house. That swing was the focal point for a lot of my childhood. We&#8217;d sit out there with friends in the summer, somewhat as our unofficial clubhouse, kids draped on banisters and railings as we huddled around and shot the shit. 

One of my favorite memories was the day we left to go to on a road trip with my mom. I was young, maybe twelve or thirteen, and we were up early to leave. I forget where we were going. Maybe the beach, maybe Detroit, I don&#8217;t really remember. It&#8217;s immaterial anyway. Mom planned to leave around 7 and my brother and I were already set to go so we just wandered outside onto the patio and sat down in the swing watching the sun come up over the trees. We figured mom would come get us whenever it was time to go. 

A little while passed and then mom appeared from the around corner asking, in that panic shrieking voice that mom&#8217;s have when they&#8217;ve lost their children, &#8220;Dan? Andy? What are you doing out here?&#8221;.

I just replied with &#8220;Watching the sun come up&#8221; then nodded in the direction of the trees. Mom stood there, took it in for a second, then said &#8220;OK, it&#8217;s time to go&#8221;, so we just got up and went inside. 

The image of that sunrise is a good memory.

Tom called as I was on the swing, checking in to see how the call went. I gave him the cliff notes, I&#8217;d gone from suck to blow, so my report was laced with a hell of a lot of hopelessness.

Tom seemed undeterred though. I think that&#8217;s one of the things that works in our friendship &#8211; I&#8217;m the ever prescience pessimist and Tom is the optimist. Phrased another way, I&#8217;m roadkill and he&#8217;s the guy with the shovel that scoops me off the street after I fall down.

I don&#8217;t remember much of the weekend honestly. I did some yard work, that seemed to lift my spirits some in the moment, but once I stopped moving and the realization popped into my head that come Monday I had to face the challenges in front of me, the depression came rushing back.