---
id: 1718
title: 'Protected: Week 23'
date: 2020-07-26T02:34:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1718
permalink: /2020/07/26/week-23/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, July 20, 2020

Monday went by in a blur. I sat down and was kind of like &#8220;ok, where do I need to focus my week&#8221; and then tried to get organized. It was challenging. We did the stand up at 10AM, then spent the afternoon getting organized and catching up on some articles I had flagged for reading. 

Paul and I had a long conversation Tuesday, after the morning stand up, about hiring rockstar talent. Frankly, we can&#8217;t afford it. What we can do though is bring on people with passion, initiative, and curiosity. We can be a team of underdogs with the right mentality.

This takes me back to my MAD Security days and the early days at Cedar when I couldn&#8217;t hire existing talent. I had to find new talent. I hired a janitor that worked at Walmart &#8211; he was the most knowledgeable person about DNS I&#8217;ve ever met. I hired a guy fixing PCs at Best Buy &#8211; he was best problem solver I&#8217;ve ever worked with. I hired a guy right out of college that was working at the Apple store &#8211; he&#8217;s now the first Security Principal at Splunk just eight years later. I hired an accountant &#8211; he was one of the best, if not the best, security forensic investigators I&#8217;ve ever worked with.

The reason all of these diamonds in the rough worked out is because I was hiring them for skills and talents they had already. They were passionate, curious, and just needed an opportunity to apply what they had learned in their current roles and to apply their innate talents with problem solving, detail oriented work, or creating new ideas. All of them have since moved on to bigger things &#8211; making more money &#8211; doing jobs they enjoy. I hope I can make the same kind of impact with everyone that comes and goes from Rocketansky. 

Case in point &#8211; I interviewed a guy named Dean, a retired nurse looking to get into computers so he could launch a healthcare startup, Tuesday morning. He seemed like a nice guy, he passed the curiosity and passion test, so voted him a yes and passed him to Tom for his interview.

Josh sent over the demo videos that he&#8217;d been working on Tuesday afternoon. They were ok, but not super. They make a couple leaps of faith, and part of me was wondering if I should just use pictures of the wireframes instead, but in the end figured they get the point across enough to demo it to DJ Wednesday morning.

Tuesday night we had our usual Founders call. We chatted through progress to date and went through our standing agenda. There wasn&#8217;t too much we discussed that isn&#8217;t covered in these updates, but generally revolved our discussion around immediate next steps and outstanding items &#8211; employee stock documents, staffing, increasing our development speed, and possible funding options in the future. We also talked about how we wanted to handle payments and credit card processing.

We also elected to start doing a weekly book report with Break All the Rules, one chapter a week, similar to what I did at Cedar. Many of the ideas in Break All the Rules I want to incorporate into Rocketansky and there&#8217;s nowhere better to start than with my two cofounders.

We also talked about time. Time is very fuzzy these days. We&#8217;ve only been developing for six weeks, but it feels like six months. I hope we&#8217;re making more progress than our competitors, but then again, if they&#8217;re heading into the wrong direction then god speed to them.

Paul came over on Wednesday. We did the usual stand up meeting at 10AM, then Paul and I chatted through backend design and what we wanted the customer portal to look like. I ended up putting it into Lucidchart and sending screens over to Jon to start working on. He was still struggling through the Windows agent and React stuff &#8211; this was a much better use of his time. 

At 10:30, Paul and I met with DJ, a security friend of mine. I showed him the videos Josh had made on Tuesday and explained the core concept. DJ wasn&#8217;t as impressed as James was, but gave us the &#8220;maybe we can put it in over here&#8221;. That didn&#8217;t seem great. The door is still open, but &#8230; not wide open the way I want it to be.

I learned a couple things. First, the demo wasn&#8217;t nearly polished enough to show off. We need to have something &#8220;wow&#8221; to get people interested, even those people we know. Second, we need to do more of these calls, but it&#8217;s hard to do them without a product. Product, product, product. We HAVE to keep iterating and creating. If we don&#8217;t, we go nowhere. Product is king. Third, I was disappointed with the outcome.

My disappointment was real. I had higher expectations of myself and the demo. But I understand why we had the outcome we did. The video demo wasn&#8217;t baked enough and only showed how little we had, because all the heavy lifting was happening behind the scenes. What we had on the surface wasn&#8217;t indicative of the product&#8217;s capability overall. So we live and learn; fail and learn, and I hope, fail quickly and learn quickly. I think we did that with the demo to DJ.

At 2PM I watched Venture Deal AMA webinar on investing. I don&#8217;t remember much of it. What I did see seemed basic, then dropped off the call a little early so I could focus on getting real work done.

Thursday I had an interview with Isaiah, someone that Jon recommended. I liked him and decided to pass him on to Tom for the final interview. He doesn&#8217;t have a lot of experience but seemed passionate and had a desire to learn. That&#8217;s what we want our culture to be, we can teach the rest.

I had a design meeting with Jon for a bit so we could review the wireframes I drew up earlier in the week. We kind of know what we want things to look like, but need to start building them out and iterating. There&#8217;s a lot and lot of iterating. We do, we scrap, we re-do, we change, we experiment. 

I also started on the restated operating agreement to setup employee option pool, but it was hard to focus and ultimately just punted until Friday. 

We did get a nifty surprise on Thursday. Because I had completed 4 weeks of the Startup School updates, we were eligible for the &#8220;benefits package&#8221; from Startup School. Short version &#8211; we got $5,000 in AWS credit and a bunch of other grab bag discounts from various services. For us, since we&#8217;re literally burning our own bootstrapped cash, this was pretty awesome. I understand it means nothing to someone reading this because $5,000 doesn&#8217;t turn the world much these days.

Friday morning was an hour run at 6:30, once the sun was up and I could see, then back at my desk. I started going full speed pretty quickly, I think I took a shower break at some point, but honestly don&#8217;t remember. The day was filled with meetings, phone calls, and trying to get progress on the amended operating agreement.

I had an interview at 11, design meeting at 11:30 with Jon to talk about wireframes for the customer screens, and then an iPhone design meeting with Josh and Paul at 12:30 that ran until 1:30, or maybe 2:00. I skipped lunch and just kept cranking on everything that was in flight.

Friday afternoon, and most of the evening, I spent writing and tweaking the operating agreement template that my lawyer friend, Arn, sent over to me. I added in Drag-Along and Tag-Along rights based off language that he provided me and then tweaked the rest of the dual class restricted stock units as necessary. Some things we elected to change:

  * No Deadlock advisor &#8211; we don&#8217;t really need one since we have three founders and we can&#8217;t deadlock ourselves. Also, there isn&#8217;t anyone we trust enough to have decision making authority in the company so there&#8217;s that&#8230;
  * Dual class of stock vs having a single class like we did before. Paul, Tom, and I have the voting Class-A stock. The Class-B stock went into the option pool and for later investment. Yes, I&#8217;m aware investors will want voting rights. We elected to keep 10% of the stock in the employee pool, the remaining 90% was split three ways.
  * We included Drag-Along rights in the agreement so that we can compel minority shareholders to sell with us should we sell the company.
  * We included Tag-Along rights in the agreement as well so that a potential acquirer will need to purchase all outstanding shares. That&#8217;s good for employees in that an acquirer can&#8217;t just buy the majority of the company and leave the employees out of an acquisition. While that means it&#8217;s possible we could lose a sale of the company, it&#8217;s the right thing to do for our employees in the future.

I also talked to Tom every 30-minutes and Paul about every 15 minutes. Basically, if I wasn&#8217;t on the phone with one, I was on with the other. I took a break for a spinach and cheese tortellini dinner at some point, but it was a short lived break before I dived back into work. I also played around with captable.io some more and the other tools under its umbrella.

We also got connected with a possible software engineer that knows Windows programming. He was a referral from Mark, one of our original Rocketansky founders, and after an email to him (Justin) we agreed to chat Saturday morning.

The interview Saturday morning went well. I liked him. He writes video games, knew Windows and Android programming so&#8230; yep, he&#8217;s in for my vote. I told him he needed to talk to Tom before we could extend an offer, then something happened worth mentioning.

Tom was coming over at noon. The interview was wrapping up about 11:45. Rather than end on the &#8220;great talking to you, I&#8217;ll pass Tom over your info and he&#8217;ll set up some time to talk to you next week&#8221; I took a dramatically different approach. Something I read recently &#8211; &#8220;Successful founders don&#8217;t wait in line&#8221;. The gist of it was this &#8211; get shit done. Find ways to get shit done. Fast. Get it done well. And certainly don&#8217;t wait in line for the sake of waiting in line.

With my new found approach to life, I asked him what he was doing that afternoon. Justin said he was free and flexible. I got his number, told him Tom would be in touch in roughly twenty to thirty minutes, and that I thought they&#8217;d get along great and it should be a quick, fun chat so that we could move forward that weekend (rather than waste a week). When Tom got to my house, I handed him a Post-It note with Justin&#8217;s number and said &#8220;call this guy&#8221;. Tom said ok, called him, chatted 15 minutes, and then said he was good to move forward. One week saved.

Tom and Paul came over on Saturday for a signing party to execute the amended operating agreement. Tom and I spent a couple hours talking through various things related to growth, sales, operating expectations, and cash flow. Basically all the stuff that makes us stay alive. 

We also talked about what we do if we don&#8217;t get the NSF funding. We won&#8217;t hear anything back, best case, for another month or so. In the meantime, there&#8217;s two opportunities that we&#8217;ve found to get possible funding. The first is Y Combinator. It&#8217;s a long shot. YC is hard to get into &#8230; 99% rejection rate. No shit. The second is the Venture Atlanta conference in October. Submission requests are due by September, same with YC, with the Venture Atlanta conference presentations occurring October 21-22.

Both will give us exposure. No more cloak of invisibility and our competitors will know we exist. I kind of liking this sense of invisibility, I feel it increases our optionality. Now with that said, if we were to come out strong, with a good MVP and good customer feedback and a strong product&#8230; then that&#8217;s a whole new world for us. But we&#8217;re not there yet.

We don&#8217;t have a functioning prototype yet. I&#8217;m getting nervous. We need it ASAP. We&#8217;ve been &#8220;days away&#8221; for two weeks now. I&#8217;m hoping something comes together this upcoming week.

Saturday night I drove down to see my parents and enjoyed about 12 hours of non-work time. They of course wanted to hear how things were going, my mom and I spent a bit of time on the patio sipping bourbon after dinner, and gave her the details on everything going on in this head of mine. It was a good time connecting.

Sunday morning it was back to Atlanta and then back to work. I did a bit of reading throughout the day and sent out the NDAs and confidentiality agreements to the three new guys we were bringing on, I think I talked to Tom twice and Paul once, but generally was a pretty low key day in terms of work. My brain needed the break I think. I was in bed by 8, asleep by 8:45. 

And that ended the week. Time travels slowly and in odd forms. I feel like we&#8217;re not getting enough done, but when I go back and read these diatribes I&#8217;m reminded of the week&#8217;s progress. So maybe these updates serve a purpose for me as well as you.