---
id: 1437
title: 'Protected: Week 3'
date: 2020-03-09T21:02:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1437
permalink: /2020/03/09/week-3/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, March 2, 2020

Monday morning I was a tad sore from the Marathon the day before. The Hoka One One Carbon X&#8217;s performed great until about mile 10 when the ankle cuffs and laces started cutting into my ankles. That made miles 11 to 26.2 very painful. About mile 16 or 17 my left hamstring locked up and from there to mile 26.2 I hobbled along as best I could. All things considered, it was a pretty miserable experience but I&#8217;m glad I stuck to it as I was still able to chop about 30 minutes off my prior marathon time. Not to say I run marathons fast, I&#8217;m pretty slow by all standards. To me it&#8217;s the grit to take the journey that matters and I&#8217;m only racing myself (most of the time). 

I met with a friend for lunch on Monday and it was good to see him and chat about everything going on with my career switch. I was starting to feel a little more comfy about the whole thing and he offered to plug me into any subcontract opportunities that come up for which he thought I might be a fit. 

The rest of the week was a struggle. Coronavirus was now a thing, I spent a lot of time going to Costco and Publix to find two weeks of groceries, I watched my stock account drop 30-odd percent, and couldn&#8217;t do anything but shake my head and grin when I realized that it was my luck that I&#8217;ve found myself trying to launch a startup in the middle of a global pandemic. That sounds idiotic, but that&#8217;s the path that&#8217;s been laid before me.

By Wednesday I was struggling to do anything remotely productive. Reading, AWS classes, code writing classes, each moment was eeked out of the all encompassing void of negativity. Everything was bad news.

And it rained all the damn time. I couldn&#8217;t even go outside for a run to shake this feeling of dread. So I did the next best thing &#8211; I sat on the couch, read The Unicorn Project, and started a 28-day binge of eating a pint of ice cream daily.

Finally, on Friday, I just said to hell with it all and went outside with a chainsaw and cut down trees during a break in the rain. Literally. It was quite therapeutic.