---
id: 1576
title: 'Protected: Week 15'
date: 2020-05-31T19:00:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1576
permalink: /2020/05/31/week-15/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, May 25, 2020

Monday was memorial day and spent the day working on the pool. Getting it open this year has been incredibly difficult. Things were going well, but the water just doesn&#8217;t want to clear. I was hoping to swim but, alas, no swimming in the green cesspool of algae.

Tuesday morning I followed up with McGreggor to see if he had an opportunity to get to the Letter of Support. I didn&#8217;t hear anything back from him and made a note to follow up again in a few days.

I spent some of the day trying to make heads or tails of patent searching. Google&#8217;s patent search is about the best you can do, but even that is a big FUBAR. I have no idea why there isn&#8217;t a better searching and indexing function for patents. I&#8217;m sure it&#8217;s got something to do with all this stuff being held in some kind of legacy database, but who knows. 

Paul, Tom, and I had our meeting Tuesday night. Nothing significant to report from the meeting.

On Wednesday, I split the day between figuring out what we needed to do to prep for a patent and investigating what the Windows agent needs to do. I found a few different open source implementations and code snippets folks had posted to miscellaneous forums. Those snippets may be helpful later on to understand what we need to write. It&#8217;s been a long time since I wrote C/C++&#8230; this might not end well. We&#8217;ll see.

In the afternoon I went out to the pool to start working on the algae problem. The pool is a bit of a pain to deal with at this time of year. The algae clogs the cartridge filters pretty quickly so every day, at least every other, someone (me) needs to go out to the pool pump and filter and pull the cartridges, wash them with the hose, then put them back in. It&#8217;s easy work, but time consuming. I&#8217;ve got it down to a science and it still takes a good hour and a half to two hours to get done properly.

Thursday I spent most of the day trying to wrap my head around the Windows agent and how to build it. I&#8217;d love to say I got it or made some kind of progress &#8230; but, I didn&#8217;t. I have a feeling the Windows agent will be a very long road to travel. 

After a couple hours of very little &#8211; almost no &#8211; success I ended up going outside and spending a couple more hours on the pool. I started blindly using the leaf net to scoop leaves out of the deep end thinking that there must be some debris in there to keep generating the algae. I was right, but I&#8217;m not sure there was that much in there, at least not enough to create the kind of algae bloom we were seeing.

On Friday, I spent most of the day redoing the NSF budget to include laptops and other miscellaneous office expenses. In the afternoon I attended a webinar put on by NSF to help companies submit a solid proposal. The call lasted close to three hours, slightly longer, but the information was hugely helpful. The questions folks were asking were generally pretty good. There were a few where you want to roll your eyes, but most were good.

We also hired our first employee. Or not an employee. Unpaid intern? I&#8217;m not sure exactly what we&#8217;re going to refer to the position as since we&#8217;re not paying him or offering any equity and we&#8217;re not hiring him as an employee. Independent contractor is probably the right thing.

Anyway, he, Ben, sounds like a really smart guy and we got along fine on the interview. He&#8217;s a freshman at Yale, home for the summer due to Covid, and just wants to do cool stuff. So why not do it with us? Bringing Ben on though requires that we get some NDA, confidentiality, and other associated agreements into place. I&#8217;ll have to get in touch with Arn, my lawyer friend, to get copies of something we can use. 

I&#8217;m hoping he can do the Windows agent &#8211; I&#8217;m not sure I can.