---
id: 1511
title: 'Protected: Week 10'
date: 2020-04-26T21:46:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1511
permalink: /2020/04/26/week-10/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, April 20, 2020

The energy from the weekend&#8217;s sudden ray of light about our business model, and the bundling of processes over bundling technology, carried through Monday. I kept coming up with new ideas, linking them, discarding them, then resuscitating them in new forms. Suffice to say, I was well and deep in &#8220;flow&#8221; for the entire day.

It was a great day.

Tuesday was a continuation of Monday &#8211; design, strategy, market analysis, reading everything I could about the authentication market.

[_Note: I&#8217;m being intentionally vague here. One day, in the future when it doesn&#8217;t matter, I&#8217;ll update this with some more technical details._]

I also had a great call with someone I met a couple years ago at my last company. He had been in security a long time (still was), decided to launch his own company after finishing his MBA, and had since exited the company he started. He and I hit it off a couple years ago when we first met and have since compared notes a few times a year. He and I chatted and he made a comment, completely unprompted by me, that &#8220;the security industry really needs an authentication API that can be embedded into services&#8221;. I was dumbfounded because that was almost exactly where my thought process took me on Monday.

Tom, Paul, and I had our usual founders call Tuesday night. We talked at length about what I was thinking and proceeded to hash out what I thought our route was going to be to get there. Nobody disagreed with the overall plan, the question was, could we do it&#8230;

Paul came over Wednesday afternoon and we spent most of the day getting to know each other personally, signing the bank forms, and talking about the call from the prior night. He felt it was doable, that we were onto something, and that what we were looking to do could have a market.

I felt cautiously optimistic.

Thursday is when it all came crashing down. I settled in around 9 that morning to really get cranking on the NSF proposal now that we had a fundamental idea of what we were aiming for.

In other words, we had solved the &#8220;What the fuck are we building?&#8221; question from last week.

The problem was, I couldn&#8217;t figure out where to start. I knew what I wanted to say, but just couldn&#8217;t get the words right and the thoughts coherent. I was struggling. I was getting frustrated.

In the afternoon I took a break and called my mom since I hadn&#8217;t talked to her in a few days. She let me know that Skoli, one of her yellow labs, was going to be put down on Saturday. She wasn&#8217;t doing well, was having a really bad time just walking short distances, and that it was just time. 

That sucked. I loved that dog. The only thing she wanted to do was lay with you on the couch, forever. If you left the couch, she went with you. She just wanted to be someone&#8217;s companion all the time. I&#8217;ll miss her.

Those two things sent me into a downward spiral. I got about zero done the rest of the day. 

Monday &#8211; high of highs. Thursday &#8211; low of lows. Welcome to Entrepreneurship 101.

Friday was more writing. Or attempted writing. When I got sick of attempting to write I started doing some searching on how to write NSF proposals. There&#8217;s not much out there. After some thought, I opted to reach out to McGreggor and ATDC to see if they had any recommended proposal writers they knew of. It also occurred to me that I could reach out to someone I used to work with and see if she knows anyone with NSF proposal experience.

Friday afternoon, Mike and I had our usual bi-weekly call. Nothing of major import on the call. Basically I ran down where we were, where we wanted to go, he made some recommendations, and that was about that.

All-in-all it was a good week. Arduous, but good.