---
id: 1640
title: 'Protected: Week 18'
date: 2020-06-21T18:59:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1640
permalink: /2020/06/21/week-18/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, June 15, 2020

This week can be described in one word: development. Every day this week was the same. 10AM standup call to review each others progress on development, troubleshoot anything that the others were struggling with, course correct if we needed to, and then assign the next round of tasks before we all dropped to go do our own stuff.

In my own corner of the world, I worked on wire framing the enrollment process, and got that finalized on Wednesday. I worked on understanding, in very, very low level detail, how Open ID Connect (OIDC) works and how SAML works. I also read a bit about OATH 1.0 and 2.0, but since OIDC supercedes those, that was where I put most of my focus. Our first mission is to get OIDC working.

I also read a lot about how we want to integrate with outside services, such as Okta, cleaned up documentation, and generally tried to keep pace with Paul and Ben. 

We also hired our second unpaid intern, or whatever we&#8217;re calling them. I personally dislike the word intern, because I&#8217;ve known some great interns that were on par with full time developers yet were treated like less, and would rather everyone just be equal in title. I made a note to talk with Paul about that next time he and I are on the phone. 

Anyway, we decided to bring Josh onboard Wednesday. He&#8217;s a recent UGA graduate with a MIS degree and has some background doing IOS programming. I think he&#8217;ll be a good fit for our culture and I enjoyed talking to him when we met last week. He&#8217;ll start on June 29th. 

Ben is working out well; he&#8217;s smart as hell and we are all getting along really well. I think we&#8217;re really starting to gel into a team.

I learned a few big things this week. 

  * First, step back and let others do their jobs. They have more skill than I do when it comes to writing code. I haven&#8217;t had the opportunity to do really heavy coding like this in almost 20 years. I know how to code, I know how to build good logical programs and architect, but I don&#8217;t know enough of the syntax to really do it justice. I&#8217;m better utilized doing the architecture stuff and helping remove blockers when they do come up. 
  * Second, hiring great talent is the best thing you can ever do. That&#8217;s become apparent this week with Ben. I&#8217;m constantly thinking to myself we got really lucky with him because he&#8217;s got a super logical mind and has been a huge help getting this thing moving. Paul and I would be much worse off without him.

I also spent some time reading the Startup School website and many of the articles by Paul Graham. Paul Graham&#8217;s essays are by far some of the best pieces of knowledge I&#8217;ve found pertaining to the startup world. It&#8217;s especially reassuring that many of PG&#8217;s viewpoints and opinions are similar to mine. Maybe I know more intuitively than I think that I do. While that should be reassuring, I also don&#8217;t want those false assumptions to lead me in the wrong direction. I&#8217;m taking the view that I just need to remain humble and observant of everything around me, and continue to learn and explore this new world of mine.

On Thursday, I had a customer discovery chat with a guy named Rob who had spent a lot of time in his career in the financial services industry. We talked at length about how our solution might or might not fit into the financial industry. One of the theories we had with regard to retail is that you could use our solution to bring credit card data over from banks as part of the OAUTH authorization process. The basic premise is that anyone who signs into a retail website would bring over their credit card details with the authentication process. That would mean that any ecommerce site wouldn&#8217;t need to ever ask for or track credit cards ever again &#8211; they come over as part of the authentication process. From a customer perspective, that&#8217;s kind of nice in that I&#8217;d never need to key my credit card number into another website ever again.

Rob seemed to agree that something like that could be useful, but the problem of expiring credit cards has already been solved within the industry. I made a note that the current solution solves the banks&#8217; need, but not necessarily the customer need of having a portable credit card for online purchases or having to change the credit card when it expires. From recent experience, some sites update to your newest card from the bank automatically, but many do not. 

All in all, a decent week. I was hoping for more of a slam dunk with Rob, but the product-market fit as I conceived it may or may not be there based on the conversation with him. Regardless, we&#8217;ll keep plugging away and fighting the good fight.