---
id: 1504
title: 'Protected: Week 9'
date: 2020-04-20T19:22:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1504
permalink: /2020/04/20/week-9/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, April 13, 2020

There&#8217;s a moment before the panic sets in. It&#8217;s right after you gain consciousness, but right before you open your eyes. It&#8217;s a blissful moment, seemingly the only moment, where I can truly escape from the weight of my feelings. 

I remember when I first felt that moment. It was after a particularly hard breakup in my early 20&#8217;s. I remember being distraught that things went the way they did, even though I knew it was the right thing to do, my broken heart be damned. That night I eventually fell asleep with the hope that it would all be better come morning.

When I woke, there was a brief moment where I felt fine. I felt free. My head clear. Then, suddenly and without warning, I was reminded of the past day&#8217;s hurt and my respite was briefly lived; waves beating against a shore, slaves to the rotational battle of Earth and Moon.

And that was how Monday started at 1:37AM. I&#8217;d managed to get exactly twenty three minutes of sleep.

I gave up trying to fall back asleep about an hour later. Dressed in my robe, listening to the storms howl outside in the night, and presiding over a cup of coffee, I made a list of everything pressing, all the flotsam that had been churned up from the week prior. 

In no particular order:

  1. We needed to figure out how else we can be competitive. How do we differentiate and remain competitive? 
  2. We need to better understand our competitors. Two incumbent players are now moving into the market we envisioned two years ago but failed to act on. Who else is out there that is moving in this direction?
  3. There are over two hundred certifications for FIDO2 servers. Some of those are internal implementations, for example Bank of America, that are not meant to be sold externally and many that are overseas outside our market. However, there are some that are startups similar to us. It&#8217;s unclear if they are competitors or not; some are, some aren&#8217;t.
  4. How do we handle NSF? The goal of NSF is to fund technical projects that &#8220;de-risk&#8221; the projects for later investors. Because others are doing very similar things as us, are we going to submit our full proposal &#8211; after spending weeks writing the damn thing &#8211; only to be told that we don&#8217;t fit the requirements for the program.
  5. We need to get a development plan together, but before we can do that, we need to figure out what the fuck we&#8217;re actually making.

All these questions leads me to the biggest question of all &#8211; is it time to pivot? Let&#8217;s review the facts:

  1. The competitiveness of our business model is in question.
  2. We don&#8217;t have a clear vision for the product.
  3. We don&#8217;t have traction on code development.

I feel very stupid. I&#8217;m the guy who left a stable job that he did well at for twenty years, who decided to take a leap on an idea without a proven business model, at a time that coincides with a global fucking pandemic, and a world economy on the verge of a depression where 1 in 10 people are unemployed. That guy.

This will go down as either the greatest success story of all time or slotted into the annals of business case studies about what not to do, right next to Kodak.

I had blocked some time on Monday to attend a webinar about NSF funding. It was over lunch so figured I&#8217;d eat while watching. However, the webinar never started. No idea what happened. I checked the link 10 times, verified I was in the right place, right date, right time&#8230; but nada. _[EDIT: I got an email a couple days later from the host saying sorry for the missed webinar. Apparently, they had some miscommunication on who was doing what.]_

Other than the time spent eating lunch and looking at a blank screen, the rest of the day was spent in a furious loop of Google-read-Google-read about everything going on in the security market, business models, blog posts&#8230; you name it. It was just voracious data input and analysis that was punctuated by _&#8220;Oh my god. I&#8217;m going to fail. I&#8217;m going to go bankrupt. I&#8217;m so fucked.&#8221;_

Tuesday was the same as Monday. I even started calling these episodes &#8220;Fury Loops&#8221; in my head. Not only because these thought patterns were quite wild and disparaging, but because the word &#8220;fury&#8221; reminded me of the word &#8220;furry&#8221; and &#8220;furry&#8221; is like &#8220;fuzzy&#8221;. One of my prior bosses frequently used the phrase &#8220;a fuzzy lollipop&#8221; to describe difficult challenges. I&#8217;ve adopted that phrase as one of my own (thanks, Rick!) and this business problem is definitely in that category. 

Tuesday was another long day. It was very difficult to sleep Monday night, so just got up and started working again in the middle of the night. It was difficult to focus and to keep chipping away at the problem space given I was tired, but I was too worried to sleep and came to the realization that &#8220;the only way out is through&#8221;. 

Salvation from the &#8220;Fury Loops&#8221; came Tuesday night during my weekly team meeting with Paul and Tom. After laying out the issues, we did some brainstorming on possible solutions and pivots. It was a long call. We started at 9:00 PM and didn&#8217;t get off the phone until well after midnight. 

But there was a sense of forward motion after the call Tuesday night that was reassuring. Paul and I agreed to meet again on Wednesday in the afternoon and talk through some ideas and then we would meet up again with Tom later that evening at 9:00 PM.

Wednesday turned out to be quite productive! I was able to get some sleep Tuesday night after the call ended and slept in a bit on Wednesday morning. The call with Paul in the afternoon was fruitful. We came to a few conclusions on where there were gaps in the market and what we could do to fill them. We were still a very long way from something definitive, however, we felt there was something there.

On Friday, I caught up with the CEO at my prior company. It was great to chat with him about the transformation my prior company is undergoing as part of their recent transaction and to give him a sense of what we&#8217;re doing. It was an upbeat call and was a bit of an emotional boost given the challenges earlier in the week.

It may be apparent by now, but I&#8217;ll say it again &#8211; the most challenging part of this journey is the mental and emotional fortitude you need to navigate these challenges. 

I also attended a webinar called &#8220;Hacking Zero Trust&#8221; Friday afternoon. It was rather interesting. The biggest piece of knowledge I got from it was that the audience, call it 125 or so folks, couldn&#8217;t define what &#8220;Zero Trust&#8221; really was. I was reminded of a comment that Mike made a couple weeks beforehand &#8211; &#8220;Zero Trust is just a marketing term&#8221;. At the time, I wasn&#8217;t sure I agreed with that statement because in my mind &#8220;Zero Trust&#8221; is a 100% solidified strategy / vision on how to implement security in an untrusted world. They didn&#8217;t know what Zero Trust is; yet, to me, it was a real thing. What I took away from that dichotomy is that maybe I was seeing something not obvious to many others or had taken Google&#8217;s BeyondCorp vision, and in some way, made it my own because I saw what they were getting at. Ultimately, after pondering it most of the weekend, I realized that I had internalized &#8220;Zero Trust&#8221; as an application of certain balanced principles that reinforced one another. It&#8217;s essentially a bundle of processes.

Then it suddenly hit me &#8211; bundling was entirely the answer I had been looking for. Our product, and by definition the white space we had been talking about all week with regards to our business model, was reliant on the aggregation and bundling of _processes_ not _technology_. Suddenly, I was mentally back in my capstone class listening to Professor McGreggor espouse &#8220;IT IS NOT ABOUT THE TECHNOLOGY!&#8221;

I glanced at my runDisney medals hanging over my desk and formed a half smirk; Disney, the king of bundling.

I&#8217;d finally had that one break I had been desperate for.