---
id: 1792
title: 'Protected: Week 25'
date: 2020-08-08T02:14:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1792
permalink: /2020/08/08/week-25/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
 

#### Monday, August 3, 2020

I&#8217;m caught up. Finally. I was able to get one or two blog posts written each day last week and it feels like a small load off my shoulders to be back up to date.

The team got authentication working on Monday, shortly after lunch, about 12:45 PM or so. Ben pinged the team in Slack saying he&#8217;d worked out the last JWT issue and that it was running end to end. I asked him to make a quick video to memorialize it and he sent over the following.<figure class="wp-block-embed-youtube wp-block-embed is-type-video is-provider-youtube wp-embed-aspect-16-9 wp-has-aspect-ratio">

<div class="wp-block-embed__wrapper">
</div></figure> 

As much as I&#8217;d been focused on this milestone the last few weeks, it felt kind of hollow. I&#8217;m not really sure why. There was a moment of personal celebration, I got a little teary eyed, but it faded rapidly. It wasn&#8217;t the euphoric release I was expecting. I&#8217;m not really sure why that was the case. I was in an odd mood the rest of the afternoon, too. It&#8217;s like I know intellectually I should have been super excited, and I was for a moment, but it just didn&#8217;t resonate. 

After some thought, I think the reason why I had that emotional reaction is I realize this is just one accomplishment at the beginning of our journey and that there are many, many others we need to do. I have a fear that we are not moving fast enough, and with that fear comes a secondary one that I will slip into an authoritative task master espousing &#8220;get more done, work harder, work longer&#8221; which is counterproductive to what we want the company culture to be and how I think people want to be led.

My view is it is better to charismaticly pull those who want to go with you on the journey than it is to push from behind. I have found that pushing from behind, i.e. taking the authoritative viewpoint, is generally synonymous with individuals that have high levels of insecurity. 

It follows, therefore, that I am feeling some level of insecurity at the moment. Analyzing that aspect of my psyche leads to believe that is indeed the case. I&#8217;m concerned about cash flow, I&#8217;m concerned about trying to win a customer &#8211; will people even buy our product? &#8211; and a myriad amount of other day-to-day crises. 

I think that&#8217;s why my jubilation was short lived yesterday. I wanted to feel the moment, but just couldn&#8217;t offload my concerns for more than a few moments, a brief respite to allow the sun out before the clouds crowded out its rays.

Anyway, Monday was relatively low-key minus the aforementioned prototype test-run success. I spent the morning getting situated for the week, updating my task list in Asana, and then doing some of the Venture Deals lectures and this week&#8217;s homework assignment on deal terms. I didn&#8217;t know much of this stuff going in, so put a good 4-5 hours into it so I could really absorb it.

I&#8217;d love to say I absorbed it in depth, but I feel this is one of those things you only learn by doing. The reality is that we will have a lawyer with us to help navigate these things and I really only need a working understanding of the core principles. It is very clear to me, through this limited exposure, that the SAFE notes have a tremendous advantage in terms of reduced complexity.

Tuesday morning I skipped my usual morning run, my left hamstring is acting funny and is oddly sore, maybe I pulled it, so spent about 30 minutes wireframing the backend website to add functionality to add/delete admin users to a company&#8217;s account. I chatted with Paul for 15 minutes about what I&#8217;d put together and made sure he was comfy with it then moved on to the daily stand up.

Of course we tried to demo the app for everyone on the daily standup call and of course it crashed. We&#8217;ve still got some bugs to work through, but at least it ran once so we know it&#8217;s technically feasible. Josh and Ben are going to spend some time working through the bugs today and add some of the error checking we need to make it more robust. Obviously we need to make this rock solid and that&#8217;ll come in time.

Looking back at the calendar, minus the time that Josh and/or Ben were on vacation, we were able to go from zero to a working prototype in about five weeks. I don&#8217;t have an estimate on number of hours, but assuming 40 hours per week that means we spent about 200 hours per person or 400 hours total. I don&#8217;t have a benchmark to determine if that&#8217;s good or bad.

Tuesday afternoon I got some bad news from Ben. He has been looking for a full time position in lieu of going back to school this upcoming fall semester. He got an offer from a med-tech company in CT and was asking for his letter of reference. I was happy to write him one, but wanted the opportunity to chat with him first and see if it was possible that he stay with us instead. We can&#8217;t offer money, at least not a lot of it, because the more we give him the less Paul and I can survive. We&#8217;re each burning out own money right now and have limited runway so it&#8217;s a hard sell to cut that shorter. Ben understood our position and where we were at with everything and said he hadn&#8217;t made his mind up yet on which direction he was going.

I shot a quick note to Mike after I got off with Ben and did a very fast call with Mike, trying to be respectful of his time, to chat through the approach. What I had conceptualized was to grant him some risk multiple of stock and some beer money, call it a few hundred dollars per month. Mike agreed that seemed reasonable given our current resources. 

I then called Tom and Paul individually and chatted with them about how we wanted to approach retaining him. Both agreed that money was tight, but that we could afford to kick out a few extra hundred a month if we had to. Tom said he had finally sold his old house on Monday and that freed up a few hundred bucks each month that we could use for beer money salaries as both Paul and I are slowly going backrupt.

With Ben&#8217;s future in question, I brought up Josh. They started around the same time and Josh is also looking for full time work. I suggested whatever we offer one we offer the other since their skills were comparable. The catch is that Josh is out of school, he just graduated in May, and he&#8217;s looking for get out on his own whereas Ben is a 2nd year college student and living at home. We really need to offer Josh a salary, but with what money? We can&#8217;t afford to pay $60,000 a year for a new hire right now &#8211; that&#8217;s essentially my entire runway to keep myself alive for the next nine months.

It&#8217;s a tough position to be in. I would love nothing more than to compensate these guys, but we just don&#8217;t have it. It&#8217;s agonizing to me personally because I want to make people happy and reward them for really great work.

Sometimes it sucks to be a CEO.

Paul, Tom, and I met at Taco Mac Tuesday night rather than via Zoom for our weekly Founders Call. It was good to see everyone in person and to have a bit of comradery. Beer, cheesesticks, wings, and cheese dip &#8211; far from healthy &#8211; but ohh so good. I realized I hadn&#8217;t had cheese sticks since Covid started, at least as far as I could remember. 

We talked at length about Ben and Josh and how we wanted to approach retaining them. We hashed out a plan that we felt was solid and generous, but ultimately it will be up to them if they want to stay or not. I agreed to reach out to Ben and Josh on Wednesday to present our offer which I hoped they would be receptive to. 

We also talked at length about culture. I wrote back in Week 19 that it had been on my brain a bit and felt it was a good time to bring it up with Paul and Tom. The good news is we all agreed on it. We used different words to describe it, but the general feeling we were trying to achieve was the same. That was good to hear &#8211; it means we&#8217;re probably more suited to be cofounders than with others since our values and norms are closely aligned. 

I had a memorable moment driving home. It rained while we were at dinner and the humidity was uncharacteristically missing when we left the restaurant. I rolled the windows down and enjoyed the cool summer night air during the hour drive home. <a rel="noreferrer noopener" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hev2qx1y2IU" target="_blank">Mick Jagger&#8217;s <em>Just Another Night</em></a> came on the radio while I was headed back and took a moment to just feel the adventure. There&#8217;s always another crisis around the corner and the moments where they aren&#8217;t top of mind are few and far between. On the drive back, cool air, good music, it just kind of let me be free for an hour. No email, no work, no pressure, just enjoying that moment of being alive. My advice to anybody that follows my footsteps &#8211; take time to reconnect with you when you can. Trust that those moments will happen sporadically and at opportune moments, don&#8217;t waste them when they occur.

I woke up about 2:15AM on Wednesday with my stomach in knots. I knew we were going to be eating oily unhealthy food so took a preemptive Pepto chewable before I went to dinner &#8211; oily fatty foods don&#8217;t agree with me since I had my gallbladder taken out a few years ago &#8211; and was thankful I did. I didn&#8217;t feel sick, just that &#8220;I shouldn&#8217;t have eaten that&#8221; feeling. I couldn&#8217;t sleep so after thirty minutes of flipping and flopping around like a fish out of water, I just got up and started working. Kim woke up sometime around 5:30AM and found me at my desk in my robe and slippers sipping on a cup of coffee. She was mildly alarmed since she woke up and I was gone. I agreed to come back to bed for a bit and try to sleep &#8230; once I wrapped up the email I was working on. I ventured back to bed about 5:45 AM, laid there for thirty minutes staring at the ceiling, then got back up and resumed working. I figured I&#8217;d just nap later in the day when I finally ran out of steam.

I ran out of steam about 6pm and manged to get about an hours worth of sleep. Before that though, I was knocking stuff out left and right! It&#8217;s amazing how much stuff you get done when you put in 9 hours of work before lunch and another 6 after. I did a couple more hours of work after I got up from my nap and had some pizza for dinner. All told, I think I got maybe 17 &#8211; 18 hours of work knocked out throughout the day.

In the afternoon, I talked to Ben and Josh and relayed the compensation offer we had come up with the night before. They both agreed they&#8217;d give it some thought and get back to me which is the response I expected. I sent each of them an email confirming our discussion and, in Ben&#8217;s case, the reference letter I had promised to send him for his work on Rocketansky over the summer. 

I was scheduled to attend a webinar about Trademarks in the afternoon, but never got the meeting URL. The Eventbrite system just sucks &#8211; you&#8217;d think they would send the meeting details in the invite, or post it on the page, but nada. This is the second Eventbrite webinar I&#8217;ve registered for in the past couple of months and in every case the meeting URL was missing. It&#8217;s something to do with their platform &#8211; just a totally shit UI/UX. Makes me want to scream because it&#8217;s so damn simple &#8211; what&#8217;s one thing you need to attend a webinar? _THE FUCKING URL TO ACCESS IT_. Sigh. I vowed to never attend another Eventbrite hosted webinar again.

I reached out to Tom Wednesday night to check in on him since he and I hadn&#8217;t talked at all that day which was rather odd. Call it intuition that something was up. His wife was out of town, so he was rolling solo at his house, which necessitated that I leave him a rather humorous diatribe about making a wellness check on him since we hadn&#8217;t talked in like 18 hours.

He called me back shortly thereafter saying he was alive &#8211; barely. Apparently that stomach grumbling I had Tuesday night wasn&#8217;t just from the diet. He was massively sick all day &#8211; likely suspect was food poisoning &#8211; but he was alive.

I was all over the board on Thursday. The day started with doing some work prior to the daily standup meeting with development, then the daily standup call, then a quick run over to my lawyers house, then back-to-back meetings in the afternoon. I never really got settled to get anything done other than the couple hours I carved out in the morning prior to the standup call. That time was mostly spent working on the YC application, giving some thought to website design, and rehashing prior assumptions about how users would use the product.

In the afternoon, I had a Startup School call with three other CEOs. One was making an advertisement platform for cars (like those little screens in the back of taxis with advertisements), one that was making a CRM training platform, and one that was making robotic prosthesis for people who were disabled. Of the three, I felt the prosthesis company was off to the best start. The CEO sounded strong, knowledgeable, and they were making good progress. He related the story of their prototype being fit on a disabled veteran who had lost his arm from the elbow down &#8211; I got a little teary eyed as he was telling it because I can picture that day as he told it. I laughed at the end &#8211; the first thing the veteran did with his robotic limb was give the nurse the finger after she told him he needed to rest (lol). 

The feedback on Rocketansky was positive. They all felt it was a great idea, they liked the direction, and were excited to see/hear more about us as we get the prototype done and get into the market.

After the Startup School CEO call, I spent some time catching up with Carl, a former co-worker at Cedar. He had left Cedar back in April and is working on his supply chain startup. We compared notes, chatted through some things he&#8217;s currently working on with his company, and I offered what insight I could.

Friday was a busy day. I spent the morning working on the YC application, had a meeting in the afternoon with a rep from Hubspot, met with Paul one-on-one to talk about development, and had an advisor meeting with Mike in the afternoon. Ohh, and the prototype broke spectacularly because we had too many hands in the pie. 

The prototype issue irked me. Essentially what happened was one guy was refactoring the database and by renaming some of the existing tables it broke the existing code. It&#8217;s a newbie mistake &#8211; plan your changes, communicate the changes, and then make the changes. We&#8217;re moving very fast on purpose and this is the penalty you get for doing so. We&#8217;re going to break things. It only took an hour or so to fix once we realized what was going on, but all the same, it means we&#8217;re starting to stress our existing processes. We need to get better on planning changes and communicating them. A quick 5 minute meeting to review them would have prevented the issue and saved three people, myself included, an hour&#8217;s worth of time. I made a note to talk to Paul about that the next time we caught up on the phone.

At some point on Friday, I don&#8217;t remember when, Jon and I agreed to meet Monday so we could review the website frontend and hash out a final design. Rather than start from scratch, I found a bunch of templates for $40 and just bought the whole package. I think it was something like 30 different website templates and figured we could cut blocks of code from each to build the website I had envisioned. They looked pretty feature rich so I felt we were off to a good start on that front and had saved a ton of time by doing so since we weren&#8217;t re-inventing the wheel.

The Hubspot call was somewhat anticlimactic. I know we&#8217;ll need a CRM system of sorts when we get to selling, but we&#8217;re not there yet, so the call was mostly themed around &#8220;yeah, we&#8217;re in free mode until we&#8217;re not, I&#8217;ll tell you when that it is.&#8221; But the rep, John, was very helpful and sent over a number of articles that I can use to help leverage Hubspot better as a small startup company. The interaction was solid &#8211; he knew his stuff &#8211; and it made me feel like &#8220;yes, this is a company I want to do business with.&#8221; Having read The Sales Acceleration Formula by Mark Roberge I felt somewhat bad for John. I know Hubspot sales track metrics religiously about conversions and such and I&#8217;ll be an outlier; we&#8217;re not buying until we&#8217;re ready.

The call Friday afternoon with Mike was a good call. Someone in his family / social circle came down with Covid, so they were trying to get people in the family tested and all that. He didn&#8217;t think there was anything to worry about, but all the same, they were taking precautions. 

He and I chatted about the potential turnover of our developers and at the end of the day we can only offer what resources we have to offer with. If we lose Ben, then it is what it is. We made a good offer, in my opinion, for a college student with limited experience. Not to say that we don&#8217;t value him, we certainly do, and he&#8217;s incredibly smart. He grasps things very, very quickly, perhaps faster than anyone on the team &#8211; myself included. 

But like any person who has ever worked for me, if they have a better opportunity, than I am happy for them. And if he should want to remain engaged and come back, then we will welcome him with a warm bowl of chicken soup. That&#8217;s our culture.

Mike and I also talked about sales and the prototype. He feels we need to continue to talk to folks about what we&#8217;re doing, but I&#8217;m finding it very hard to do so when I&#8217;m getting interest and then have to essentially put people on hold for weeks. I want to get interest, say here&#8217;s the prototype let me sign you up, and then touch base with them weekly to see how it&#8217;s going. I want to carry momentum.

Not having a product right now is making momentum impossible. Not having a demo of the product is also making it difficult to keep interest and momentum. I can describe it all day long, and get interest, but I need more than that. Mike has a long history of doing marketing and product market fit, so I&#8217;ll defer to his wisdom. He and I agreed to put some time together next week on Tuesday, the 11th, to really dig into the customer journey and product market fit. I agreed to get some work done on it before Sunday night and send over to him for review. I&#8217;m kind of shooting in the dark with what he wants to see, but at least I can shoot in a direction and learn from it.

After the call with Mike, I spent a bit of time on the phone with Kevin at Nerv+ catching up. He reached out via email when I was talking to Mike, since Kevin and I hadn&#8217;t caught up in a few weeks, so we played phone tag and ended up having an informal call for a half hour or so. The topic of Venture Atlanta came up, he is applying for a presenter spot, and I mentioned we were doing the same. He knows some folks organizing it and said he&#8217;d be happy to make an intro to them so I could build some relationships there that may be helpful. 

We also briefly chatted about incubators and other sources of funding. Not much to report there other than what I&#8217;ve already related here about it. He asked if I&#8217;d heard anything from NSF, I said I hadn&#8217;t, and he said they were still working on their submission. We&#8217;re about two weeks away from September 1st&#8230; I&#8217;m hoping we hear something soon &#8211; obviously hope it&#8217;s good news. On good days I feel confident that we&#8217;ll get in. On most days I&#8217;m skeptical. Optimism / pessimism right there. Now with that said, no matter what happens, I&#8217;m confident we&#8217;ll keep fighting the good fight one way or another &#8211; I&#8217;m not going to give up if we don&#8217;t get it. 

Managing your emotions is one of the most challenging things about being a CEO and starting a startup.

Saturday was a bit of work, call it 4 hours, spent reading on various startup topics I wanted to absorb more and looking at the templates I&#8217;d pulled down on Friday from BootStrapMade.com. I earmarked a few different templates to talk with Jon about and discarded the rest. And like always, my brain just did not shut off thinking about the company. It doesn&#8217;t do that much anymore. Even when I&#8217;m doing something else, I feel the company just underneath my conscious, percolating. 

I&#8217;m not sure where this falls in terms of a weekly update. Does Sunday count as last week, next week, or is it some indeterminable quantum of time in between both weeks like a prologue or the narrator&#8217;s monologue between a play&#8217;s Acts? Regardless of its position, I&#8217;ve had a circuitous round of thought Sunday morning that I felt was important to memorialize because I felt as though I&#8217;ll be reflecting back to it. 

I woke up Sunday morning and was feeling like I didn&#8217;t want to work. I wanted to turn on the old Nintendo, good ol&#8217; 8-bit NES, and absorb myself in some kind of lengthy adventure. Something like Zelda or Maniac Mansion &#8230; something that would bring out a sense of discovery, progress, and reward. But for whatever reason, I didn&#8217;t turn on the NES. Instead I opened the computer, checked email, then started reading about Accelerators. 

We have been talking, Tom, Paul, and I, about the different Startup Accelerators we might try to get into and the benefits of doing so. The benefits are really two things: a) some amount of investment, generally $120k &#8211; $150k and b) advisement, mentorship, and networking connections to possible further investment, either a Seed or Series-A round of financing. 

What I found Sunday morning is that there are really three programs we would apply to &#8211; Y Combinator, 500 Startups, and Techstars. The rest, and there are many, are the B-squad and while their $100k or so in funding may be good, the advisement, mentorship, and networking connections are not as good as the top tier. With that in mind, we want to focus on those top three first.

I spent another hour or so figuring out how to go about applying for those three &#8211; YC, 500 Startups, and Techstars. Each has their own process and I pulled down PDFs of each application so I can give it more focused thought over the next week. One recurring theme, however, is Product. And I capitalized that because it deserves emphasis. You get customers and funding by having a great Product. If your product is shit, then your users won&#8217;t come, and funding won&#8217;t follow them. Or vice versa. Either way &#8211; Product is king.

Tom jumped on the phone with me at 10AM and we spent a little over two and a half hours working on documenting customer journeys and the reasons why customers will buy our product. Once we had something we felt was solid, I sent a copy over to Mike so he could pre-read before our meeting on Tuesday. 

Tom and I also worked through the Week 6 homework for Venture Deals which was a negotiation prep sheet for a mock VC funding negotiation. There wasn&#8217;t much different in the material than what I remember from our Negotiations class in grad school, basically you inventory what resources you have, what they have, what they want, what you want, and where your walk away point is and best alternative. The goal is not to create a zero sum game, but to find a win-win solution that balances your needs with theirs. Everyone has to win or it doesn&#8217;t make sense to do it. Many people don&#8217;t grasp that concept. 

I spent Sunday afternoon reading by the pool and cooking a prime rib on the smoker. The prime rib turned out great and I was able to get about 3-4 hours of reading done in the afternoon. I spent most of it learning about how to grow your product, &#8220;growth hacking&#8221; as it were, but in the end resigned myself that it all comes down to Product. We are very far away from &#8220;growth hacking&#8221; as our product isn&#8217;t done. 

I also spent some time reading about various &#8220;jobs&#8221; the CEO does. There was a great article in the <a rel="noreferrer noopener" href="https://www.ycombinator.com/library/3k-what-s-the-second-job-of-a-startup-ceo" target="_blank">Startup School library by Ali Rowghani</a> that drove home the previous point about needing a solid product before you get to &#8220;growth hacking&#8221;. In summary, the moral of the story is the CEO has two jobs &#8211; first it&#8217;s to develop a product, second is to develop a company. 

I played around with that in my mind a bit and compared it to the journey we&#8217;re on now. We do not yet have a product, we&#8217;re still a bit away from it, and I question if bringing on the other developers was good or bad. Did we try to create a company first, then a product second? Or was it smart to leverage &#8220;free&#8221; resources while they are available to move faster? Did we move faster than if Paul and I had just focused our entire summer on it? 

It&#8217;s really hard to say what was right and what was wrong or even if it mattered. I think from one perspective it was the right choice to bring on extra developers. We&#8217;ve been able to accomplish a pretty good amount in terms of breadth, even though we haven&#8217;t been able to get a prototype out yet. To be clear, we&#8217;re not past due, and maybe I&#8217;m looking at this as a sprint versus a marathon. Maybe I need to be more patient and let the process work to the end. 

Being patient is tough. There is a part of me that is chomping at the bit to get out and sell this thing and also a part of me that dreads becoming a salesman knowing that I have to go out and find our customers. I think what moves the needle for me the most is that getting the prototype done means we&#8217;ve hit a milestone and we can&#8217;t do much else without it long term. In the short term, there&#8217;s things we can do to get ready for the next phase, like the customer journeys for example, but we don&#8217;t really know that the product works, and by works I mean solves the customer problems. 

I was reminded about the Wilderness article from last week, or was it the week before? I&#8217;m not sure. Time is weird these days. We are in the wilderness now, I know that much. We&#8217;ve had a stepping off point, but the journey is far, far from over.