---
id: 1444
title: 'Protected: Week 6'
date: 2020-03-29T22:13:00+00:00
author: Daniel
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1444
permalink: /2020/03/29/week-6/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Monday, March 23, 2020

Everything in life is basically cancelled. That&#8217;s my takeaway from this week. I&#8217;m immediately reminded of Spaceballs. <figure class="wp-block-embed-youtube wp-block-embed is-type-video is-provider-youtube wp-embed-aspect-4-3 wp-has-aspect-ratio">

<div class="wp-block-embed__wrapper">
</div></figure> 

I met with the guys Tuesday, our usual meeting, where we talked through the business plan and Mike&#8217;s feedback from Friday. It was a quick call and we agreed we&#8217;d all meet on Sunday to dig into the business plan in more detail and start talking about what we needed to do for development with FIDO/FIDO2/WebAuthN.

I continued to work on the business model plan, start doing some technical exploration, and just kind of dribbling the ball forward solo.

On Thursday we had our first round interview with the Create-X folks&#8230; only they didn&#8217;t show up. There were apparently issues moving from an in-person interview to Bluejeans and they never got the notifications that we had scheduled time with them via the website. It didn&#8217;t upset me greatly that the interview had to be rescheduled &#8211; the meeting on Sunday with Tom and Paul would enable us to have a much more in-depth discussion with them the following week.

The Sunday meeting with Tom and Paul went great. We hammered out a lot of the technical details with how we were going to handle authentication, the backend, and it was a full-on geek out Sunday for a good four hours. We all left the meeting feeling energetic and that we were finally getting some traction and were on the right track with developing the authentication service I envisioned back in 2018.

_[EDIT: I&#8217;ve revisited this post on Week 16 as a retrospective. Just wait&#8230; it gets real good after this._

_Foreshadowing:_<figure class="wp-block-embed-youtube wp-block-embed is-type-video is-provider-youtube wp-embed-aspect-16-9 wp-has-aspect-ratio">

<div class="wp-block-embed__wrapper">
</div></figure> 

_Enjoy!]_