---
id: 1418
title: 'Protected: Week 1'
date: 2020-02-22T21:26:00+00:00
author: Daniel
excerpt: Excitement abounds as the journey begins, but darkness looms unbeknownst in the land....
layout: post
guid: http://danielfrye.com/?p=1418
permalink: /2020/02/22/week-1/
categories:
  - "The Entrepreneur's Journey"
---
#### Wednesday, October 16, 2019

&#8220;What do you want to do?&#8221;, he asked.

That&#8217;s how this thing started. It was a nondescript day in a nondescript Jason&#8217;s Deli. I was inhaling a chicken panini as fast as I could because I felt guilty tying up the CEO&#8217;s time when I knew he was really, really busy. I looked at him, scared to death because I suddenly knew this was the moment when I had to make a decision, and managed to choke out &#8220;I want to start my own company&#8221;. He looked at me and without hesitation said, &#8220;OK, let&#8217;s make a transition&#8221;. I suspect he already knew what the answer was and was simply waiting for me to realize it myself.

#### Monday, February 17, 2020

Fast forward four months from that lunch. It was Monday morning and I sat down at my desk with my coffee for the first time without being employed since I started working 27 years ago bagging groceries. I had a mental image of Bilbo Baggins putting on his pack and grabbing his walking stick as he sets out for the first time as I started making a list of what I needed to do. Setup email, register the company name, talk to my lawyer about getting Articles of Organization drawn up&#8230; all the administrative stuff that makes a company come to life.

I chipped away at that a bit throughout the day, making a call or sending an email to Tom and/or Paul, my two cofounders, as I needed input on various things. Company name, which domain we wanted, etc. There was a sense of excitement for the most part, but also a kind of surreal feeling that was lurking in the shadows. I couldn&#8217;t quite put my finger on it.

Monday night, Tom, one of the cofounders, and I met one of our professors from GA Tech for a beer and to get his feedback on what we were up to. He was supportive, asked us a bunch of questions, and offered to help us on the journey we were about to undertake. It was good getting his input because a lot of the things he raised were things I had already considered. A small, but consequential confidence boost.

A funny thing happened after the beer that&#8217;s worth relating. Tom and I wanted to get some food, so wandered over to Salt after we left the brewery. We sat down at a table &#8211; the place was packed &#8211; next to two women that were probably in their late 40&#8217;s to early 50&#8217;s (my best guess). Tom and I are chatting, excited and passionate about finally taking this leap, when one of the women leans over and says &#8220;do you guys go to GA Tech?&#8221;. I look at Tom, Tom looks at me, I look down at the GA Tech pullover I&#8217;m wearing, then reply &#8220;We graduated from there, the MBA program.&#8221; 

The woman then explains that both her daughter and the other woman&#8217;s son go to GA Tech and they wanted our input on the school, professors, etc. We told them all the usual stuff; it&#8217;s a good school, challenging, but they&#8217;ll be better off for it. It was a positive review. So then one of the women asks what brought us up to Roswell from GA Tech and I tell her that Tom and I are launching a tech startup and tonight was literally Day 1. So of course they asked what the startup was, and I replied using the most basic non-technical language I could that it &#8220;is a startup to get rid of passwords&#8221;, and she immediately says &#8220;ohh, I hate passwords! I would pay money for someone to get rid of them&#8221;.

For anyone who has done customer discovery work, you will understand this transition. For everyone else, the Art of Customer Discovery is the most important thing you can ever do as a company. The basic premise is this &#8211; companies that listen to their customers&#8217; pains and the gains are the ones that will be the most successful because they will likely always have a customer. It sounds easy, but it&#8217;s not, for a variety of reasons, namely customers can&#8217;t always articulate what they are _really_ looking for or what they are _really_ trying to gain. It reminds me of a Franklin Coveyism about emphatic listening skills.

So immediately Tom and I shift into customer discovery mode trying to quantify how much they&#8217;d pay, what current solutions they&#8217;re using now, what pains or gains they are looking for, and so on. The shift was automatic, like a light switch was turned on. Looking back on it now, a couple weeks later, it makes me smirk. Here&#8217;s two women hitting on us, or at least I think they were but I&#8217;m a bad judge of that, and we&#8217;re in full startup-geek mode trying to get more data for our startup. There&#8217;s a sitcom scene in the making there somewhere. I guess the moral of the story is that customer discovery can happen anywhere at any time and from the most unlikely of sources.

Tuesday was a continuation of Monday&#8217;s administration activities and I had dinner with my old boss. It was a going away kind of thing and a chance for us to chat through any last minute turnover items. The weather sucked &#8211; heavy rain and thunderstorms turned my usual hour commute into a little over two hours and I got there an hour later than expected which chaffed me to no end. She was accommodating, and thankfully the restaurant could seat us, but I hate being late. It still irks me and it&#8217;s been five weeks since.

Wednesday I met with my accountant to get my taxes done and to talk to her about what I needed to do for the company. EINs, TINs, LLC, partnerships&#8230; my head spins trying to keep all these forms and filings straight. I now understand why people will gladly pay a few hundred bucks to have someone do all this for them. She also told me she&#8217;s retiring. Crap. Now I need to find a small business accountant, although I am really happy for her. Add that to the To-Do list.

Thursday I had two important meetings. The first one was with a prior coworker, Shelley, who had written professionally and the second was with an ex-CISO-entrepreneur friend, Mike, who had offered to act as an adviser and give me some mentoring along this journey, at an industry event he was sponsoring.

A little background &#8211; in the preceding four months, once news broke I was leaving my prior company, a lot of people asked what I was going to do. At first I wasn&#8217;t really sure. I mean I was, but I was hesitant to even conceptualize that I was doing it. You can call it denial, or maybe it was I couldn&#8217;t believe it was actually happening. After about three months of non-committal answers, I started explaining to folks that I had three general directions I wanted to pursue (i) a tech startup, (ii) write a book, and (iii) do some consulting on the side so I could give myself some more runway with points (i) and (ii). I was hoping that meeting with Shelley would give me a view into what &#8220;writing professionally&#8221; and &#8220;writing a book&#8221; really meant. Note, talking to someone experienced with what you want to do and asking them to relate their experiences is a solid way to approach branching out in your career and networking with others that I&#8217;ve carried over from Cynthia, the executive recruiter in my MBA program.

The meeting with Shelley was great and we talked for over an hour. I got a ton of notes from her about what really goes on with writing a book and it really falls into two camps. The first one is the traditional publishing route, which is really a networking game. It&#8217;s the &#8220;not what you know, but who you know&#8221; kind of thing. The second one is the self-publishing route, which is incredibly easy now with Amazon Kindle and the various services out there. You&#8217;ll sign away some of the equity for the book to pay for it all, but the bar is significantly lower to self-publish than it used to be. For me self-publishing is probably the best route to go.

The second meeting of the day was good, but awkward, largely because of myself. A friend had organized a small gathering of security folks and a couple of investor friends to meet for beer and some finger food at a local brewery. It was meant to be a pre-RSA kind of party for everyone to meet and greet, and for those not going to RSA, to connect with folks they rarely see. It was an excellent opportunity for me to meet some new folks in my new startup world.

And I failed at it (in my opinion). First of all, I wasn&#8217;t sure how to introduce myself. I mean, when you have a job you say &#8220;Hi, I&#8217;m Dan Frye, I run cybersecurity strategy and operations for a hosting company.&#8221; Simple, non-technical, anyone gets it. If I was talking to someone in the security industry then I&#8217;d say something like &#8220;Hi, I&#8217;m Dan Frye, I&#8217;m the CISO (See-So) for a hosting company&#8221;. But in this instance I lacked an identity. Was I unemployed? Was I a CEO? Was I a cofounder? What, exactly, was I the cofounder of? We hadn&#8217;t done anything yet, or had we? I found that I had a distinct lack of identity. I didn&#8217;t like that feeling and I&#8217;m positive it carried over to the people I talked to as social awkwardness.

My advice for people that make this transition &#8211; make sure you are 100% aware of your identity, and you believe in it, before you go out in public. I did not. At all.

With that said, I genuinely enjoyed the event, had some good conversations, made a couple of contacts, and took Mike up on his offer to meet with him every couple weeks so he could give me some advisement as I moved through the startup launch process. I&#8217;m glad I had the opportunity to go (thanks Mike!). Note, I was still clinging to the Path of Three (startup, book, consulting) that I was using prior. That should have been a sign something was looming. I hadn&#8217;t committed in my mind yet.

There wasn&#8217;t too much to report on Friday. It was mostly just getting organized, getting some things done around the house, and uninstalling software from my prior company on my laptop and phone so I had a fresh computing platform as I settled into my new job. Basically, it was a house cleaning day.

And that was my first week launching a startup. I was off and running. Excited. Ready to tackle this thing. And that feeling lasted promptly until Monday morning about 9:30 AM when my first, of many, &#8220;what the hell am I doing&#8221; moments came.